# Heads in the Clouds

![diagram](./assets/0000002.1.svg)

Everyone has great ideas about fantastic products that should exist. A lot of
people in the startup ecosystem imagine new worlds and alternative realities
that we should live in. And they are right! The problem is not necessarily our
ideas. The problem that almost all builders fail to overcome is the strategic
execution in order to get to that dreamy target destination. This post intents
to explain "how you get there".

Let's start by saying that I fell into this particular trap myself in the most
hilarious way. At some point I worked on a consumer product idea that intended
to allow users to discover certain things on the internet, which was simply not
possible at the time. My idea and my web interface were both brilliant. I worked
on the complete tech stack all by myself for about 6 months. At the end I had a
really nice "MVP" that allowed the user to have the envisioned experience. All
built by myself, and it was fun doing it! When I launched my app there was
obviously no user to try it out. I knew I had to go over into the bootstrapping
phase. And I had a plan to bootstrap a network effect. It was a great plan. And
it did something! It did just not do what I expected it to do.

My "go to market" strategy involved a feedback loop with a social network, whose
name shall remain undisclosed in order to protect the innocent. For the purpose
of our story we will refer to it as "Twitter". I executed my plan and managed a
Twitter account for my app for about two days when I realized that this plan did
absolutely not work out as intended, and I did also realize why. Over a glass of
sweet red wine I am happy to share more details about the story. For now those
details are out of scope. One of the reasons my GTM did not work was because
there was no meaningful service that just another Twitter account could bring to
bear in order to make another human being go like "oh look at this". If you are
convinced that your marketing strategy of "just tweet about it" will get you
users, don't! My efforts drowned in the noise of crypto Twitter without
achieving anything at all other than making me realize what just happened.

What just happened was multiple things. For one, if approached more diligently
and strategically I could have validated the most critical component of my
master plan by basically running the twitter account for two days to realize
that the whole thing just falls apart. And while my app would work, if only it
had a bunch of users to overcome the network effect, I had no viable way of
achieving exactly this very important goal. If you take anything away from this
post then let it be this. Distribution is everything. How you make people use
your product might only be second to the product itself. Another thing to
internalize is that your final "heads in the clouds" vision of your super cool
product is totally not what you need in order to release it on day one. What you
have to understand is that your future vision of the product is something you
have to work towards over time while it is being used. That is also why you
often hear referrals to that methapor of changing the wings of an airplane
during flight. The point is, you need some thing that gets your ass off the
ground, and that thing in almost all cases cannot be the perfect vision you are
convinced of can compete with Netflix. Look it up. Not even Netflix was like
Netflix when it started.

Often I like to explain it this way. When you do the startup thing, you say you
want to get from point A to point B. Those two points are distinct and very far
apart. There is no straight line connecting those two points. Point A is where
you are at, the very beginning, the here and now. Point B is where you want to
go, the target destination. The problem we are getting at is this. While a lot
of the founders out there can articulate their grand vision of the future
somehow, almost all of them miss the way more important detail of how to
actually get there. They are [climbing the wrong hill]. So most founders do not,
and cannot articulate what the very first thing is in order to get the very
first user use a product that does not really look like the grand future vision
at all. That is the crux of it. We can all agree that bridging the gap
conceptually between point A and point B is a whole different challenge. It is
hard, it is difficult, and it is complex.

The reason why nobody can compete with Google, Netflix or Twitter is not that
these products are technically difficult to build. It is not the money or desire
that stands in the way of pushing Google from the throne. In fact everyone would
love that. The reason why it is not happening is because nobody can figure out
how to even get into any form of competing position. There is a [desert of
unprofitability] around market leaders, and these deserts are far and wide. Many
try to conquer, and all of them starve to death on their way to get there. It's
impossibruh!

In almost all cases, nobody will come if you build it. Nobody. And it may not
even be like that because your product sucks. No, it may simply be like that
because nobody knows about you and your product. The fact that there are
billions of people out there who are all hungry means little to nothing for your
geographically constraint restaurant business. Now when I think about a better
way of living or a cool product that should exist, one of the first things I try
to do is to brainstorm how I would even bootstrap that idea. Often I reach my
limits in a short amount of time and realize that I have no thesis for
overcoming this or that particular challenge along all of the involved path
dependencies between point A and point B. Not even if I had a lot of money to
burn. Time and time again I run into powerlaw like forces that do not allow
anyone to pass.

Another way of thinking about this strategic execution is the difference between
your answer to a question and your way of coming up with that very answer.
Admittedly this is a bit meta but maybe that is exactly the point. There is a
lower and more fundamental level that we have to get right in order to perform
well. Every human being has initial emotional reactions all the time about
literally anything. An answer to a problem can come from very different places.
And you better make sure that your answers come from a place of rigor and merit,
and not out of your lizard brain. Because if that is the case then all you do is
play the sad version of see-no-evil. And that game does generally not end well.
To drive the similarity home, your vision for the future is good and great, but
if you do not understand how to get there then it's frankly just another
meaningless brainfart that probably a thousand other people already had before
you. And they all died.

At this point, please allow me to indulge myself in the tangential concept of
[tarpit ideas]. I giggle every time I think about how [Dalton] and [Michael]
joke about it. Tarpits form in nature due to petroleum leaking through the
surface. When they occur they resemble water holes. So much so that animals try
to drink from them, and die. The vicious cycle here is that the resulting
biomass decaying in agony attracts more animals that subsequently share the same
deadly fate. Translated to our collective heads in the clouds phenomenon, that
means that a lot of people did actually already have the same idea about the
future that you come up with. The reason why you can now conquer an "empty"
market is not so much that you are a genius or the first of your kind. No. The
reason nobody is here is because everyone who tried to get here did in fact die
due to starvation or intoxication, or both.

Focusing on the bootstrapping problem first and foremost has the advantage that
you can basically pretend you do already have built the perfect version of your
visionary product and not waste any effort on actually building it. Simply
because it is way more important how to get that thing to market than actually
building it, given we are not attempting to violate the known laws of physics.
Like, pretending to have built a flying car and coming up with a way to sell it
is not that hard for the obvious reason that people would love to have a flying
car ever since we had non-flying cars.

Here are some practical ideas on "how to get there". Understand that your answer
is not nearly as important as the way to come up with it. Instead of proclaiming
"this is how we get there", rather define the problem statement and then derive
a plan that can be executed strategically. You will realize there are path
dependencies that you have to address in order. And approaching the
bootstrapping problem systematically helps you to truly understand the
underlying forces standing in your way. It always helps to write down how to
bootstrap your idea. Write it down in simple terms. You have to be able to
explain the journey in minute detail. Spoiler alert, this kind of articulation
should actually be in any pitch you send my way. The ability to think clearly is
critical here. If you want to train your logical thinking, there is a pretty
neat protocol you can apply to train exactly that. [Karl Deisseroth] articulated
the idea of practicing your internal monologue by deliberately spelling out full
gramatically accurate sentences in dead silence. Basically, you sit in silence,
and try to think in whole sentences. You can think what you want. You can
brainstorm your idea, but you need to constrain your articulation to sentences
as if you explained your thought to somebody else. Here you have to make
yourself honest again and realize whether you make vague assumptions or draw
wild conclusions within your reasoning.

And you know, maybe you figure out that it doesn't work. And that is ok! You
have permission to realize that there is no path forward anymore after trying
real hard. You are allowed to change your mind if you indeed have learned
something. And it is totally ok to simply walk away and move on. It is a good
thing to walk away from a tarpit. Thought it was water. Well, it wasn't. Let's
find another opportunity. It may feel like cutting of a limb. It hurts to walk
away after pouring your heart into an idea for maybe even years on end. On the
upside, it is really great to realize it's maybe just another tarpit, or realize
that I can just not do it.

[climbing the wrong hill]: https://cdixon.org/2009/09/19/climbing-the-wrong-hill
[Dalton]: https://twitter.com/daltonc
[desert of unprofitability]: https://gwern.net/complement#:~:text=create%20a%20desert%20of%20profitability%20around%20you
[Michael]: https://twitter.com/mwseibel
[Karl Deisseroth]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w9MXqXBZy9U
[tarpit ideas]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GMIawSAygO4&t=1144s


TODO

* title is somehow odd
