# Runners Run

![diagram](./assets/0000001.1.svg)

The world is an utterly messy place and it leaves all of us behind being utterly
confused. When I talk to people they say things like "I want to be a trader", or
"I want to be an entrepreneur". And while those aspirations are admirable, the
next thing they say is "how do I do that?". This post intents to explain "how
you do that".

Without going into all the minute details here, we can all agree that traders
basically make money by buying low and selling high, in some form or shape. In
the same vein we can probably all agree that entrepreneurs make money by
building something that the people out there want to pay for. Keeping it simple,
those essential facts are all that matters.

I remember somebody wanting to be a trader so bad that he signed up to workshops
and bought all kinds of "signals" that supposedly let him become successful at
trading. We have all been in this place. Wanting to become something, and
longing for guidance, looking for help. There are now a couple of fundamental
flaws in this story. First of all, the sole purpose of any product out there is
to being sold to you. And that makes you the consumer. It does not take much to
realize that consumers, on average, do neither become traders nor entrepreneurs,
if the consumer is your singular defining spirit animal. This might be a
contagious opinion of mine, but if you find yourself purchasing your way into
your career path, you will not get anywhere, if not lose it all. Now, we can
acknowledge that there is usually the need for equipment. Let's say you need a
personal computer to work in the digital world. Check. The second point I want
to make here is that there are no tricks, no tools, no shortcuts that provide
you with a particular form of edge in any of your endeavours. The reason for
that is that anyone out there, that is your competition, has in fact access to
all the same tricks, tools and shortcuts you have access to as well. So we find
ourselves on a level playing field to begin with.

If you take anything away from this post, then let it be this. Traders trade.
Builders build. Runners run. Writers write. Painters paint. And basketball
players, that's right, play basketball. Because [what you do is who you are],
and when [Ben] says it, it must be true.

It is almost silly to spell it out like that, but I noticed that a lot of people
need to hear this. When you want to become something, you need to do that thing
that defines that very something in the most fundamental sense. All you have to
do in order to become a trader, is to trade. All you have to do in order to
become an entrepreneur is to build. The people playing in the NBA are not out
there shopping for the right shoes to run faster or to jump higher. Shoes are
not the make it or break it components of the craft, especially when you start
out. If you want to become a basketball player, all you have to do is to play
basketball. Nothing else. The same applies to all other mission statements. If
you want to be a painter and you are stuck because you cannot find the
appropriate canvas or paint or you don't know what to paint, then you will never
become a painter. It is not in the equipment, but in the activity itself.

For that same reason one of the Christmas presents I gave away last Christmas
was some average pen and paper notebook. And on the first sheet of paper I wrote
"the power of the word does not come from pen and paper". The gift did not cost
much. The material cost was meaningless. What I wanted to gift is inspiration
and the understanding that all that matters is what you do. And that magic can
only come from inside of you. Put differently, if you are externally motivated
to become a trader because the good ones make so much money, then you are very
likely to give up at some point on your way. The reason for this is usually that
most people just want the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow, but what they
do not want is to do ther thing that is required to actually make it there.
[Chamath] said a thing that stuck with me ever since. He said something along
the lines of, "if you really want to get to the top of the mountain, then you
better like hiking". And I think most people neither do like hiking, nor
understand what that actually means.

So, the only thing you have to do if you want to be a trader, is to make a
trade. Go and make a trade. And not just one, but many many trades over a long
period of time. And no, you do not need money to learn how to trade in the first
place. You do not need accounts on exchanges. You do not need to go through KYC
processes, nor wait for SEPA transfers to clear. You do not need a solid trade
execution foundation in order to minimize your cost model. You do not need to
understand complicated traditional finance jargon if you are at the very
beginning of your trading journey. All of those things come in time if you only
do the thing. You do not need anything more than pen and paper, if all you want
and need is to learn how it is done.

Bear with me here please. Traders and capital allocators will confirm that
journaling and writing generally helps them to be better at their craft, stay
focused and organized. Writing is a form of thinking. And you are going to have
to think a lot if you want to be a trader. Thinking is then not just the
recycling of other peoples' ideas. Thinking is the process of articulating the
underlying mechanics of the system that you want to conquer. In practice, here
is how I would suggest you get started. Write down the current price of any
asset you want to trade and write down whether this price is going to be higher
or lower in one week from now. Additionally to that, write down why you think
the price is likely to go in the direction that you chose. This is how you enter
your first trade on paper. No money required, no nothing. The essence here is to
write down your own thesis for the market, which is based on facts and reasons.
After one week, you then validate your thesis and see how your hypothetical
trade would have performed. That means, write down the exit price after your
time window and see whether the price movement over the past week matches your
initially chosen direction. There will be a simple yes or no answer when you ask
yourself whether your trade would have made money or not. In either case, your
job now is to analyse why your thesis was in fact proven right or proven wrong,
and whether your believes about the reasons for the predicted market behaviour
have in fact been true to the best of your knowledge, or not. At this point you
realize that trading is not about fancy signals or high performing machine
learning models. The essence of trading is to assign probabilities to possible
outcomes for the underlying fundamentals that you can reasonably well
articulate. Because only what you can articulate well, you do really understand.
Gut feelings are a luxury that only seasoned warriors can afford after being
scarred countless times inside the arenas around the world. When you start out
with anything you have to be brutally honest and awfully excplicit in your
thinking and reasoning. And you have to write all of this down if you are being
serious about your ambitions and about yourself. Any hand waving or glossing
over what you consider unimportant details may turn out to come crushing down on
you in no time.

The protocol described here can be adjusted in various ways. You can choose any
asset, market and industry to trade in. You can play around with time scales and
run multiple thought experiments in parallel if you have that capacity. And
while your bets are running, you can use the time to educate yourself about the
fundamentals of your bets and their underlying systems. The important part here
is to create and maintain your own journal that keeps you honest and
accountable. After a couple of months of consistent journaling you should either
realize that you do not want to become a trader after all, or realize that you
in fact have become better at what you are doing. Realizing what you do not want
is valuable in and of itself, so do not be discouraged. Now you know and can
take on another journey! That is exciting! If you on the other hand notice you
have in fact a neck for trading like [Cred] or [Jonah] do, then you must clearly
like the taste of your own blood and at this point you will make your way with
godspeed, which does not require wasting any further words. We will pour one out
for your broken soul.

While the example above outlined one potential strategy to approach the
discipline of trading, we could define similar steps towards mastery for all the
other professional fields as well. If you want to continue the conversation
about such interesting dynamics I would love if you reach out as long as my
availability permits.

Finally a bunch of caveats to preface our thinking here after the fact so we are
not mistaken for handwaving fundamental intricacies away. If you are playing in
the NBA then the shoes you wear are likely more than fashion statements. There
are probably brand, marketing and maybe even miniscule performance implications
to consider. That is ok if you are in fact playing basketball against the best
of the best. The point I tried to make here is simply that the type of shoes you
wear is mostly irrelevant if you are just at the very beginning of your desired
basketball playing career. The type of shoes that you wear should not stand in
the way of you playing basketball. You should even be able to play without shoes
if you have to, which I would argue makes you a better basketball player than
all the other people around you, because what you do at the edge of death is to
realize your own potential to an extend that most of the other people out there
are simply not willing to bring to bear. If you are driven by the sheer hunger
inside of you, then that is something your competition is being utterly afraid
of. Because [nothing wants to stand in front of something, that is relentless].
The same line of thinking applies to all the other disciplines. Elite traders
and capital allocators have tools and systems that enable them to do their job
better at a higher level. Note the classification of elite. When you begin your
journey then none of these fancy tools and systems apply to you, because you are
frankly not elite at all. Those fancy things are meaningless distractions if you
want to learn the craft. And now stop being distracted and go do what you have
to do.

[what you do is who you are]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/book/2019/0000062
[nothing wants to stand in front of something, that is relentless]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2024/0001264
[Ben]: https://twitter.com/bhorowitz
[Chamath]: https://twitter.com/chamath
[Cred]: https://twitter.com/CryptoCred
[Jonah]: https://twitter.com/jvb_xyz

TODO

* diagram does somehow not fit
