I got into The Master Switch, written by Tim Wu. The book is about the history
of American information industries, highlighting all major step changes in the
evolution of information technology. Everything started with the industrial use
of electricity. Humans learned how to send electronic signals over long
distances, resulting in the telegraph and later telephone. Radio was the next
step change, allowing information to be broadcasted over the airwaves. Film and
television followed, until eventually computers and the internet took hold of
society. Across history we can see that new technology arises due to innovation
that is often carried out in decentralized settings. The success stories of the
time tend to be governed by more centralizing forces, until monopolies form
under regulatory capture. History suggests that all centralizing forces give way
to decentralized systems where a free society allows for many millions of
participants. It is a matter of time until open systems win over private
control, as long as human curiosity has a path to flourish. Monopolistic empires
may dominate temporarily, but entropy may always lead to the dispersion control.
The audiobook was pretty enjoyable to listen to, especially because of the ever
repeating patterns of what seems to be a protocol within complex systems. It
seems, there is nothing new under the sun after all. The conversations that we
have today about the dangers of centralization were had by every generation
before us.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/The-Master-Switch-Hoerbuch/B004FO6X5S
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tim_Wu
