I got into The Prince, written by Niccolò Machiavelli. The Italian diplomat
could be described like a strategic thinker. He expressed timeless principles
for the geo-political environment of the 15th century. The Prince is one of the
classical pieces of literature most ambitious individuals have at least heard
about for once. The book is the perfect example of power laws that appear to
apply all over nature. Nowadays, the human story is guided by law and moral. Law
and moral are actually only stories themselves, which we tell ourselves and
agree on collectively within the scope of nation states. Zooming out nothing
like laws or morals effectively exist, but what a collective can and cannot do.
In that sense one takeaway from The Prince might be that you can make anyone
believe by force. The cold war was a resemblance of this very principle and it
applies as well to the game of poker. If you do not believe you have to pay the
price of knowledge. Further, Machiavelli states, men must be treated well or
crushed. In life we try to find the balance between order and chaos. Outside of
the comfort zone we notice that nothing can be taken for granted. One of the
classics in this book might be this one: better to be feared than loved, but
never hated. Be fear the point of balance holding everything together, even if
it is only grounded in respect. In that light, better treat anyone as your
strongest opponent and prevent yourself from being hated by cruel wrong doing.
If you have to, be a mercenary in life, but never depend on them, as all they do
is extract maximum value from the system that you try to defend. A great book
for great thinkers. As timeless as they come.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/The-Prince-AmazonClassics-Edition-Hoerbuch/B078JYKGGT
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Niccol%C3%B2_Machiavelli
