I got into Can't Hurt Me, written by David Goggins. The book is a portrait of
the Life of Goggins so far. The narrative of his life is constant success and
failure, directed like a rollercoaster. The story of his life begins as a young
African American child finding itself in a racist environment. Ignored and beat
down by the system, Goggins went through all kinds of struggles ranging from
child abuse to killings in the various neighbourhoods he lived. He was an
average Joe, overweighted, not believing in anything, not even himself. His life
got a turnaround when he wanted to join the military. Goggins went through three
hell weeks, became a Navy Seal and served in various high decorated military
forces as the first man of his kind. He became an ultra runner and broke the
world record for most pull-ups within 24 hours. The audiobook is super cool and
I enjoyed it greatly as it is designed to be audiobook, podcast and semi
interactive challenge. Every chapter contains guidance on how to overcome your
weak points and asks the listener to counter them. Goggins developed certain
habits to overcome his own shortcomings and shares his ideas of e.g. the
accountability mirror and the calloused mind. David Goggins is arguably one of
the hardest motherfuckers who ever lived on this planet and his stories just
blew me away. At the end of the day, it is all mindset. Can't Hurt Me is one of
my favourites and the mental edge I try to employ in my own life for years and
years to come.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Cant-Hurt-Me-Hoerbuch/B07KKPR52P
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Goggins
