I got into The Book Of Why, written by Dana Mackenzie and Judea Pearl. A highly
academic history of statistical correlations and causal models. Goal of the
authors is to find ways to make machines understand the world. Hashtag
artificial intelligence. Hashtag machine learning. It was really hard for me to
go through the book and it is probably a really bad audiobook, because the
stories being told make use of a lot of algebra and formulas, which I did not
follow at all. My expectation of what the book is about was something different
in the first place. The idea of the book though is interesting and makes sense.
Here the implementation might be a bit unfortunate. At the end of the day it
comes down to the difference between the analogue and digital world and that it
is really really hard for humans to synchronise these two things. Machines do
not understand our world because they do not operate within it as we do. There
are so many signals and so much input that machines as of now simply lack to
consume and process. When you look at it that way, we are not more than
sophisticated signal processing machines as well. We are so good that we form
our environment to our liking. Your brain is simply put not more than a signal
processing organ only being concerned about the patterns of information flowing
in and flowing out. This is also why there is rarely a black and white wrong or
right. Because millions of thresholds have to be passed in order to make up some
kind of greyish result in your head. No matter if you think about which Cheeto
to eat next or pondering on the relative velocity of light. I personally could
have perfectly lived only with checking the last chapter of the book where the
real point is made. The book is leading in an argument for causal models in
machine learning and artificial intelligence research and that machines will
never be able to understand the world without them. The argument makes sense but
we still fail to find such causal models being hard coded within humans at the
same time. When you are geeky enough for that thing, go for it. Keep grinding.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/The-Book-of-Why-Hoerbuch/B07CYLKQLF
• https://www.researchgate.net/publication/236887179_Introduction_to_Judea_Pearl's_Do-Calculus
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_learning
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Causal_model
