I got into Trillion Dollar Coach, written by Eric Schmidt, Jonathan Rosenberg
and Alan Eagle. This book is about Bill Campbell and its influence he had on
some of the most influential people of our time. Campbell was a football coach
who got into executive positions by chance. Entering the tech industry as a
sportsman he happened to have something that most executives did not have, a
sense of bringing people together and making a team successful. Over the years
he became the executive whisperer and close friends with some of Silicon
Valley's household names like Steve Jobs and Eric Schmidt. One cool thing the
Coach did was to ask the right questions. Sometimes the right question is a dumb
question, if that follows. Asking his way through instead of advising the way up
often leads to a closer connection with people, if they open up. Everyone should
open up when they want to get help. Being close is an investment into a common
journey to a certain extend. Going onto a journey together is likely to be more
successful than going alone. In that sense, we should maybe sometimes try to be
more open, especially about our weak points. Then addressing these makes us
actually stronger and better off. Another quite confirming quote happened to be
about the fact that you should only coach the coachable to have the highest
possible impact on people and their trajectory. Anything else might just not be
worth your time or at least questionable, mildly put. Campbell died in 2016 and
Trillion Dollar Coach was a means to foster his legacy as he was a great source
of inspiration and apparently a true friend to a lot of economically successful
people. I enjoyed to listen to the audiobook and gave myself once again
assurance on how one of the many right ways in life may look like.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Trillion-Dollar-Coach-Hoerbuch/0062839276
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Campbell_(business_executive)
