I got into Maps of Meaning, written by Jordan B. Peterson. I became interested
in this book because I liked 12 Rules for Life. My expectations may have been a
bit too high in the first place. I am not sure what Peterson was aiming for with
this book but it did somehow not enrich my own life after all. One thing that
made me hesitant to get into the book at all was its length. The audiobook is
about 30 hours. I somehow think that when a non-fiction book cannot transport
its message within 5 or 10 hours it is maybe not worth it. Such a rule then may
not apply to fiction. Maps of Meaning in contrast is a historic book on the
meaning of symbols within cultures throughout the past couple of thousand years.
Peterson focuses here apparently on the historical Judeo-Christian influence.
His main point repeats over and over again. There is order and there is chaos.
He explains how life exists around it and how genders are allegedly associated
with it. So does chaos appear to be the female and order to be the male. So does
day appear to be the order, the explored territory and night appears to be the
chaos, the unexplored territory. Such analogies are brought up within all kinds
of weird long forgotten stories our ancestors have been told about monsters and
wars. All of this was too much and too confusing for me as well as of little use
for myself. I just stopped listening to the audiobook after 10 hours or so
because I got really tired of it. It was somehow not worth my time in the end
and I was missing more useful explanations of how the world nowadays works.
Peterson does usually a very good job explaining something. Maybe the topic is
just not a good fit for me.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Maps-of-Meaning-Hoerbuch/B07B5KMDJM
• https://www.youtube.com/user/JordanPetersonVideos
