I got into Quiet, written by Susan Cain. This book connected so well with me I
got all teary a couple of times. The author's message evolves around the
personality characteristics introversion, ambiversion and extroversion. There is
no clear line you can draw between either of these dimensions since all kinds of
personality traits mix and branch off in all kinds of variations. You can be an
introvert and like excessive game nights with friends. You can be an extrovert
and crave solitude. What you draw energy from and what drains it depends on the
individual. It is not really clear how much of your genome and how much of your
environment defines your personal development in this regard. Though it looks
like sensitivity and reactivity traits are heritable to a certain extend. It is
not only humans who are wired differently. We have proof for a lot of species we
could observe so far that introversion and extroversion are common
characteristics of life as we know it. Different people have different
requirements within their environment and this is especially true within social
groups. What this book tries to tell you is that it is ok who you are and that
everyone has certain boundaries they have to operate within. There are great
parenting stories in here as well. Sometimes I was just shaking my head when I
heard about parents trying to treat and heal their children only because the
children did not develop according to their parents' expectations. Bad
parent-child fit is a real thing. I liked one quote in here: "We have two ears
and one mouth and should use them proportionally.". Another interesting thought
I found was that you can be over- or understimulated, which affects your general
performance in any given environment. This book was worth listening to me.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Quiet-Hoerbuch/B006TI7UFA
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Susan_Cain
