I got into Thinking Fast And Slow, written by Daniel Kahneman. The book
describes the cognitive economics within the human mind. Two abstract concepts
are constantly at play with anything we are doing. These concepts are called
system one and system two. System one is the intuitive fast thinking component
to our brain. It acts almost out of control, unconsciously. System two is the
combinatoric slow thinking component to our brain. It acts deliberately,
consciously. System one and system two influence each other and work together.
That is how the paradox of free will is formed. We have in parts control over
our behaviour and can schedule deliberate transformation throughout our lives.
All while being subject to the underlying neural implications we obtained
already with time. Thinking Fast And Slow is extremely interesting and kept my
mind spinning. Kahneman elaborates on topics like behavioural economics,
prediction theory and several cognitive biases. Along these topics several
studies and their results are being explained. I found one idea to be
particularly interesting, which is about base rates and baseline predictions.
When evaluating datasets and trends it is critical to take the base rate of core
events within the data set into account. Missing out on any base rate events
will inevitably cause any prediction to fail. This topic is apparently something
that is often neglected by policy makers and risk managers causing their own
initiatives to have unfavourable outcomes. Anyone being interested in systems
thinking and human consciousness should checkout this book. I got a lot from it.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Thinking-Fast-and-Slow-Hoerbuch/B005TKLZSW
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daniel_Kahneman
