I got into The Starfish And The Spider, written by Ori Brafman. This book is
about the difference between networks and hierarchies. One is decentralized
following multiple chains of commands distributed across multiple failure
domains. The other is centralized following a single chain of command entailing
multiple single points of failure. The analogy of the starfish and the spider is
about the starfish's ability to survive and replicate under thread. If you cut
off an arm of a starfish it grows another arm. And then, the cut off arm
replicates into another starfish. With a spider, it is quite the contrary. If
you cut off an arm of a spider, it is usually broken for life and destined to
die. The analogy is used for organizations and social systems in order to
describe their antifragility. Especially the advent of the internet perpetuated
our understanding of decentralization as a concept that can be applied in a lot
of different domains. Starfish organizations do not have a single point of
failure. Starfish organizations do sometimes not even have any leader. Starfish
organizations have small interconnected circles all thriving for the common
greater good. The book tells a couple of compelling stories and analyses them
under the light of various decentralization aspects. One interesting insight
that I liked a lot was around linguistic relativity once again. In certain
native American languages there was not even a word nor a description nor a
concept around what we call today "you should". This aspect highlights the
fundamental understanding of native American tribes in the way they organized
themselves without telling anyone what somebody else should do. Recommended book
that puts a lot of things of the information age into perspective. It certainly
helped me to connect a couple of dots.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/The-Starfish-and-the-Spider-Hoerbuch/B004UVE088
• https://www.linkedin.com/in/oribrafman
• https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KrfcglOmBYw
