I got into The Moment Of Lift, written by Melinda Gates. I am not able to
adequately express what I felt listening to this audiobook. In almost every
chapter I just wanted to cry and smash something out of frustration. The book
describes the dire circumstances under which the vast majority of women has to
fight for their lives and well being. People in western cultures usually have no
idea about the pain and suffering somebody at the other end of the world has to
endure. There are little girls growing up in cultures believing that it is good
and right to cut their genitals in order to become a healthy member of their
society. There are little girls growing up in cultures believing that 10 year
olds have to get married to men in order to sort their house hold and give birth
to their children at such a young age. It would still appear to be wrong by
western standards if these young girls and women would volunteer for such
customs. Though, what happens around the world, every day, is being done to
young girls and women without their consent, against their will. Against their
own best interest, all to often these girls and women do not have anyone
stepping up for them. Way too often the past is holding back people to live
their own lives, sacrificing their own future, in the name of tradition. It is
omnipresent that humans are not able to synchronize properly. Allocation of
interest, information and resources is completely out of whack in most parts of
the world. Not a single country can claim it is the exception, regardless the
fact that in most cases it is better to be a woman in Sweden than in India. This
book is made for everyone slightly more privileged, in order to reflect on how
broken the world is. This book is made for everyone to understand what we still
have to do, out there in the dark. And we have to do it together.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/The-Moment-of-Lift-Hoerbuch/1529005531
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Melinda_Gates
