I got into Made To Stick, written by Chip Heath. It is about why we remember
certain things and why we forget others. It is all about relevance for the
individual. One of the better tools to make an idea stick is to tell a story.
Something that hooks you up and pulls you in. Something that connects with you
on the emotional level. This is then why fake news do even work. Because the
topic matters to people. Because the topic has such a tight grip on the
individual, no questions asked. One thing I got from here is that an idea is
simple once there can nothing be taken away from it anymore without destroying
its intrinsic value. Once released, any idea, regardless its purity, is subject
to change due to human interaction with it. And that is by design. You put
something out and the people will do with it what they think is right. And so
evolves your idea. It mutates. Carefully designed the natural evolution of an
idea makes great sense without derailing too much. But sometimes you figure out
how to split atoms and what people do is building bombs. What I take from Made
To Stick is that even simulation can ignite a chain reaction of new habits. When
you make people imagine it, you can make people do it, you make people feel it.
And what people can feel, people can understand. What I take away from here is
that a social footprint is like social proof. And social proof is equal to
credibility. So when people believe you, they endure almost any pattern
interrupt just for the sake of being connected to whatever your idea might
represent.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Made-to-Stick-Hoerbuch/B004V14R6W
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chip_Heath
