I got into The Mom Test, written by Rob Fitzpatrick. This one is for everyone
who wants to understand better what people need so that one could turn them into
customers. The key to build anything useful is to establish real human
relationships with people. In order to understand what people value one must be
willing to go through certain learning exercises. You need to have genuine
conversations with people in order to understand what matters most to them.
Often entrepreneurs in search of the next big thing collect biased data and it
is their own fault. When talking to people every question is leading. Due to all
kinds of cognitive biases or social norms it is super hard to get to the core of
what people really think. It is super hard to reverse engineer opinions into
products. One aspect I think is extremely valuable here is to not ask people
questions but to turn the table and let them make certain expressions for
themselves. You design a conversation and make people say something upon which
they can rate how valid the expression is they made for themselves. This is then
information you can turn into numbers, which makes the body of your data
comparable and comprehensible. When evaluating ideas it comes down to three or
four key aspects for which you want to collect data. Less is not sufficient.
More is overwhelming and an indicator that you do not understand the problem at
hand. Another super important aspect is that if you talk to people you really
need to be willing to understand them. That means that you shut up and listen.
Don't get into pitch mode. The audiobook was a rather bad experience and the
content of the book itself was not too valuable as is. Though what I got was
time to think. I could make up my own mind inspired by several core ideas. So I
take that.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/The-Mom-Test-Hoerbuch/B07RHWB65Q
• https://twitter.com/robfitz
