I got into Every Life Is On Fire, written by Jeremy England. Based on scientific
principles, the author puts questions on the table concerning what is alive and
what is not. Fundamental questions of life are discussed, as in, what it is that
separates inanimate objects from living beings. Every time such fundamental
questions get raised we notice very quickly that our human vocabulary is quite
insufficient at helping to identify core issues within our universe. Humans fail
to precisely describe the circumstances of what we cannot see and what we do not
understand. The chapters of the book evolve around physical principles of
thermodynamics and energy conservation. In a chaotic universe containing the raw
building blocks of life, it is an unsolved mystery of what exactly has to happen
to form more complex particles, amino acids and proteins. It is unclear how the
processes of evolution result in something so powerful like protein folding
problems. These define core functionality in the biological sense, and that
purely based on the assumedly random shape of the protein itself. More lines can
be drawn between the building blocks of organisms and minerals. There are so
called lower life forms like insects. The lines we can draw between higher order
animals get ever so blurry the more potential an organism might be able to
realize. It might not only be the question about what is alive, but also what is
conscious. The latter of which is the big problem nobody is able to answer. I
really enjoyed the perspective of systems thinking in a physical and
bio-chemical sense. I appreciated the problems of linguistic relativity raised
and just kept listening while my mind kept spinning. For me these kinds of books
work well to zoom out and brainstorm on other problem domains while getting
constantly fed intellectually while the audiobook keeps playing.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Every-Life-Is-on-Fire-Hoerbuch/1549120085
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeremy_England
