I got into Humanocracy, written by Gary Hamel. The book provides alternatives to
the conventional corporate mindset and decision making processes where
bureaucracy evolves around processes. Humanocracy is meant to evolve around
individuals, their needs and abilities. It aims to unleash the human spirit
within capitalistic organizations, to allow everyone to participate to their own
best abilities. I felt like this is the missing manifesto of decentralized
responsibility that showcases how much better networks are over hierarchies.
Like when you make blindfolded top down decisions, often the only thing you see
is the floor, and you only realize you hit the wall walking, when it already
hurts. One idea I liked a lot is the zero distance policy. It means for every
frontliner to have close contact to the customer. This design element helps to
have a sense of empathy for the needs of the people who pay the bills at the end
of the day. Another idea I kind of liked is to paying attention to have three
different types of people in each team. That is hackers, hustlers and dreamers.
Such a combination of characteristics proved extremely valuable for many
progressive organizations who dared to create tomorrow. What the book did not
address extensively were some hard topics on challenges or consequences on the
way towards Humanocracy. Like it just works out when you go on such a venture. I
missed that a little bit. Though in my opinion everyone not working in solitude
should at least have heard about the core ideas of Humanocracy so that we
eventually overcome some of the ridiculous best practices in the corporate
landscape which we carry around since the 19th century.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Humanocracy-Hoerbuch/1980090947
• https://www.linkedin.com/in/gary-hamel-791b096
