I got into Predictably Irrational, written by Dan Ariely. A book about
behavioural economics and what makes people tick. This one is good to get a
better understanding of our biases and how they hit us on a daily basis. The
chapters are full of case studies and stories around them, explaining how test
groups and control groups got setup and how test results came to be. One
interesting point about e.g. payment strategies is that most people simply
choose the option in the middle if there are three options to choose from. The
price does not influence the choice in most cases because people are simply not
good at evaluating intrinsic value of an arbitrary offering without comparable
competitive offerings. The same applies to free offerings where people highly
motivated go the extra mile in order to get something for free, even if they are
not necessarily in need for the product at hand or even if their effort put into
receiving the free lunch exceeds the intrinsic value of the offered product. And
then, thinking in systems, there was one particular idea that caught my
interest. In our world we have overwhelming evidence for social norms degrading
before market norms do. This is probably due to the fact that social norms are
pretty much a subjective decision while market norms are a collective consensus.
One example here would be stealing something. You throw aboard the moral code we
all try to obey while the unit cost and price of the item you unlawfully
obtained remains unimpressed by your personal dire needs. In this book are quite
a couple of things to ponder on, if one is interested in studies about how
people tick, what they value and why.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Predictably-Irrational-Hoerbuch/B004UV6R5C
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dan_Ariely
