I got into Psycho Cybernetics, written by Maxwell Maltz. Dr. Maltz was a plastic
surgeon in the first place. His book Psycho Cybernetics got first published in
1960. The principles of Psycho Cybernetics evolve around the power of self
imagery and the power of human imagination. Psycho Cybernetics describes how
relaxation can enable conscious manipulation of automatic mechanisms. The idea
is that if you can imagine a goal or practice you can wire your brain and train
it like you really do what you practice. One has to imagine as detailed as
possible to almost feel what is about to happen. You think, you believe, you
transform. Many high performing individuals used these practices to upper their
game and overcome fundamental challenges throughout their careers. The power of
imagination is so fascinating because it clearly shows the difference between
fact and opinion. It is only that one must be willing to understand and be
willing to try real hard. As a saying goes, the limits of your imagination are
the limits of your world. The overwhelming majority of people has the ability to
fundamentally transform their own being for the better, simply by leveraging
their cognitive abilities. If we can imagine, we can create tomorrow. One idea I
liked a lot in this book is the idea of delaying emotional responses. People are
usually quick to pull the trigger. Awareness and the understanding of maybe a
stressful situation can enable us to hold on for a moment, so that we can make
more conscious decisions. The book has a christian touch once in a while but I
recommend the principles and stories of the book regardless since they are
fundamental and can lead to extremely astonishing results.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Psycho-Cybernetics-Hoerbuch/B06XRHTD31
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maxwell_Maltz
