I got into Radical Inclusion, written by Ori Brafman. You can look at this one
from a lot of different angles. What I like about it in particular are the
economical aspects of messaging and the idea that narratives become evolving,
almost living organisms. In an organizational sense inclusion has arguably three
properties, which are participation, personalization and purpose. Given these
three requirements organizations are more likely to flurish organically. Not
only because of the healthy environment participants are eager to maintain, but
also because of potential participants the system attracts for the better. This
goes as far as creating a feeling of belonging that can unfold internally and
externally. So that inclusion does not only become part of a culture but also
becomes a unique selling point. One may even provide belonging as a service and
I found that idea pretty compelling and valuable for the service economy. After
all, stories about anonymous organizations can easily be neglected or even
villainized, whereas stories about humans are far more likely to create a sense
of belonging people can connect to. But you need to show off in order to make
that work. The book elaborates on a couple of studies of social integration at
the end in order to prove some of the proposed arguments. There are a couple of
military stories to underline the strategic aspects of communication and the
strategies playing out behind the curtain of inclusion. The book made me think.
I liked that.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Radical-Inclusion-Hoerbuch/B07B2ZB85Q
• https://www.linkedin.com/in/oribrafman
