I got into Thinking In Bets, written by Annie Duke. The author was a
professional poker player in the early 2000s. Articulating her principles she
assembled a collection of best practices on decision theory. Important for
making better decisions over time is to develop habits that promote a more
constructive way forward. One must be willing to seek out for truth. That means
that one must be willing to acknowledge that we are often plain wrong with what
we believe in the first place. Duke throughout her poker career gathered
together in a truth seeking pod, which is a little bit like a self help group on
solving certain decision making problems. The human mind is inherently biased.
We must try to understand that. And there are concepts and tools that can help
with that In any betting problem, absolute numbers like the amount one might win
or some target price one might reach accelerate bias and inhibit proper decision
making. These indicators are relicts of the past when someone created a picture
of a more ideal future scenario. Life almost never plays out like that. Scenario
planning and outcome visualization can help to map out a decision tree or idea
maze that help inform more educated decisions. Another interesting idea is the
regret minimization framework. You picture the future and try to imagine the
regrets that you do not want to have later on in your life. The book offers
quite a couple of interesting ideas. Though for me personally the book was a bit
lengthy. I did not enjoy all stories provided in here and skipped a couple of
chapters once in a while.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Thinking-in-Bets-Hoerbuch/B07954FBKF
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Annie_Duke
