I got into A Primate's Memoir, written by Robert Sapolsky. His books are usually
entertaining, funny and interesting, so I checked this one out as well.
Unfortunately, I couldn't find a version that he narrates, like he did with his
other publications. I couldn't really figure out a real reason why this book was
written in the first place. Sapolsky simply goes about his often ridiculous
adventures he experienced over decades in Africa, where his profession and
research led him. He studied baboons and formed romanticized relationships with
his troop. He darted them regularly so he could take all kinds of samples to
study their physiology. Sapolsky shares a lot of wild stories he went through.
Stories of mayhem, corruption and insanity. Stories of anger, fear and
tradition. And then I was wondering, if all of this was simply to process and
overcome his own nightmares. Towards the end came a real bummer. Once in a while
in Africa, he had to deal with a Tuberculosis epidemic among all the baboon
troops around the wild life resort he was working in. The standard protocol for
animals in such a case is to kill as many as you can before it spreads like
wildfire. His troop he accompanied for decades was no different. I am not so
sure what to think of all of this and I did not enjoy the book as much as the
others. It gives a certain perspective on life. What one realizes here is, how
wild this life actually can be and what kind of crazy things happen out there
every single day.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/A-Primates-Memoir-Hoerbuch/B00H3P4Q1E
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Sapolsky
