I got into The End Of Alzheimers Program, written by Dale Bredesen. The author
is pioneering brain health research and put together many studies and
explanations for why Alzheimers Disease becomes a more and more common problem
for the world's population. Further Bredesen provides results of his own
research and treatments to showcase how Alzheimers Disease can be treated at any
age. While many details remain unclear about the intricacies of Alzheimers
Disease what we know today is that in an overwhelming amount of cases
inflammation of all sorts contribute to different forms of cognitive decline.
This particular book has many parallels to the book "Toxic", which describes
many of the environmental factors around us that cause inflammatory responses in
our immune system. As with many health and age related topics, enough high
quality sleep is a good and simple tool to dampen the onset of Alzheimers
Disease. This is due to the cleansing nature of various body functions initiated
during our diverse sleep phases. Fasting is another tool to help cell repair and
fitness for that matter. While a lot of research still has to happen in order to
fully understand Alzheimers Disease, this book is already a rich source of
guides and ideas to counter cognitive decline. Many different topics and
approaches are being discussed in this book for living a healthier and longer
life. Of the many suggestions, improvements for sleep, sports, nutrition and
medication are just few of the topics discussed in this book.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/The-End-of-Alzheimers-Program-Hoerbuch/0593210433
• https://twitter.com/DrDaleBredesen
