I got into Algorithms To Live By, written by Brian Christian. That one might be
a bit nerdy but I love it. The book is about all kinds of problem domains like
sorting, caching and scheduling. A good one here was the optimal stopping
problem. You have a task and incomplete information. You need to find the best
solution. In a dataset with fat tails you can do sufficiently well by simply
taking the best option out of 37, since in a normal distribution your
input/output ratio of energy invested does not lead to dramatically better
results anymore. All things considered on average, you know. Translated, this
means you would be good to simply marry the best out of 37 people you mated
with. True story. Another fascinating concept explained in this book is network
congestion. I could even draw parallels between networks and markets. Networks
reach the tipping point of maximum bandwitdh at any given point in time. The
underlying protocols then send more or less data packets accordingly. That is
how something like a more or less fluid data stream is realized. The same is
true for e.g. asset prices. An asset price goes up and down depending on market
signals. In that sense a market kind of congests until it reaches a tipping
point. I was so fascinated thinking about complex systems that way. I want to
listen to Algorithms To Live By again because it was such a rich source of
inspiration for me. Recommend!

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Algorithms-to-Live-By-Hoerbuch/B01D24KJMO
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brian_Christian
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Additive_increase/multiplicative_decrease
