I got into Recapture The Rapture, written by Jamie Wheal. The book tries to
address the problem of a meaning crisis mankind is suffering from. We are living
in an age of technology and abundance. While the middle class seems to fall
apart and dissolve ever more extreme edges appear on the horizon. And so it
looks like the system eats itself. Wheal shows how humans live, love and believe
across time. Eventually the book provides some more or less scientifically
backed ideas to balance your inner self. Ideas like fasting, breathing and
meditating get suggested. Also some alternative psychedelic therapies are
mentioned, where studies show which drugs may or may not help in certain
circumstances. The bottom line in the book is that everyone has to find their
own individual balance going through life. There are long forgotten rituals and
treatments society is not paying attention to anymore, eventhough they could be
benefitial to the health of the overall system. When life is sucking the life
out of you, live life in a way that makes you feel alive again. On a systemic
level Wheal suggests three principles we need to pursue in order to make it
through as a species, namely open source, scalability and antifragility. The
hypothesis is that we can succeed and survive as society if we leverage these
principles as pillars for the architecture of our culture. One interesting
thought I want to take away from here is that lust is not equal to love. It is
that over time people grow apart and that any long term relationship requires
energy to maintain, for the better.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Recapture-the-Rapture-Hoerbuch/0062905473
• https://www.linkedin.com/in/jamie-wheal-887212a
