I got into Ageless, written by Andrew Steele. The book is about ageing research
and the advances we made so far. Similar to Lifespan the author describes the
typical suspects of life extending tools we know about so far. Calorie
restriction may be the simplest form of extending one's life. A simple
intermittent fasting regime for instance may extend a human life by 15%. Sleep
is another good one. Giving the body and especially brain time to rest and
cleanup helps a great deal living a longer, more prosperous and healthy life.
Then there are supplements like Metformin, which is a Type 2 diabetes drug to
prevent excess glucose production within the body. Though the mechanics are not
well understood, it is one of the most taken drug in the world. We are just at
the beginning of anti-ageing science. The biggest problem to my understanding is
that ageing is not considered a disease, which makes it hard to fund research
and create treatments against it which are approved by regulators. The argument
goes as far as saying that the most important thing to battle ageing right now
is to give ageing itself the acknowledged status of a disease so that research
and drug development can be properly ramped up. There are experiments that
extend the lifespan of worms by ten fold under lab conditions by simply changing
a single letter in their DNA. And as impressive as that is, nobody can still
properly explain why such a change has such an immense impact. We are just at
the beginning of treating ageing and extending our lifespans and healthspans.
And even if the first person to become 200 years old got already born, so the
idea goes, the best everyone can do is to take care of their mortal shell.
Because one day, we may just take our last breath. And nothing we know of right
now can change that.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Ageless-Hoerbuch/1526620928
• https://twitter.com/statto
