I got into The Seventh Sense, written by Joshua Cooper Ramo. This book asks one
question. What are the forces of our age? Ever since humans evolved while
technology was an ever more dominant contributor to the success of our evolution
as a species. A lot of glasses have been broken throughout history but mankind
prevailed despite the insurmountable suffering of individuals along this way. In
our modern times the middle class is dissolved putting our governance frameworks
more and more to a test. And so it happens that networks evolve at the heart of
the exploitation economy which become uncontrollable by centralized entities,
simply due to the decentralized nature of said networks. The book provides an
interesting narrative of "gatekeeping" and being "gatekept". Gatekeeping is the
act of directing energy like attention streams or monetary value within systems.
Being gatekept is the destiny of market participants on the other end of the
power distribution. That means if you do not create tomorrow, somebody else
will. And you may not like that. At this point the options of members of a
network are to either help govern the network in order to bring forth desired
change or remain to be subject of change at the mercy of governance. Another
takeaway for me is that speed kills distance. There is this idea of space time
compression. What takes years for humans to do may take seconds for a machine to
accomplish. That means the result of a task is compressed on a time distribution
indicating effectiveness. Technology enables us to compress time for an
application in a certain problem domain. I really enjoyed the audiobook since it
encourages system thinking. For the better of us, recommend.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/The-Seventh-Sense-Hoerbuch/B01ETWPYNC
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joshua_Cooper_Ramo
