I got into Something Deeply Hidden, written by Sean Carroll. The book is about
fundamental principles of quantum physics. I did understand very little of what
is explained here but I enjoyed listening to the audiobook quite a bit. What I
got from the book is that we actually have no idea what particles and fields
really are. Science makes a lot of assumptions, but what is observable and
provable are in fact different things. On most fundamental levels something like
observing a particle may change this particle's actual behaviour. Nobody has an
idea how you can prove something that is not observable while you are watching
it. Like the funny fact that nobody ever really measured the actual speed of
light. On that problem domain what we can measure is how long it takes for light
to go back and forth after being reflected by something like a mirror. The
measured result is simply divided by two, but that workaround says very little
about the effective nature of photons and how fast they even travel in a single
direction. All we have here is a projection that we accept as given fact. The
book further evolves around theories of multiple worlds and how they virtually
come to existance. I couldn't really wrap my head around that to be honest.
Though I think the theory of a multiverse is compelling to the human nature in
the way that every single bit of entropy introduces a potential branch of an
alternative reality. Another interesting thing I take away from here is that it
appears that black holes radiate particles, which was long believed to not be
possible. To my understanding this behaviour is believed to literally leak
information outside of the black hole. Super interesting stuff.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Something-Deeply-Hidden-Hoerbuch/0525592474
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sean_M._Carroll
