I got into We Have No Idea, written by Daniel Whiteson. The broader scope of
this book is about everything we do not really understand in physics. Rule of
thumb in science is that there are always more questions than answers. Based on
our current understanding, we can only explain about 5% of all matter within the
observable universe. Besides the 5% of matter we kind of know about, there is
also dark matter and dark energy. Funny enough, the names for these are kind of
meaningless because we do not know what they actually are. The smallest possible
entities that we know of today are particles, where subatomic particles like
electrons, neutrons and protons make up whole atoms. Though we have no idea if
there aren't entities in existence which are smaller than the particles we know
about. In fact string theory makes up a bunch of particles that may or may not
exist in order to explain certain effects of quantum physics we cannot explain
otherwise. One thought I got from the book that still breaks my brain is about
what infinity actually means for the universe. Since we have no idea where the
universe in which we live in starts or ends, we often say the universe is
infinite. The implication of an infinite universe is that literally anything
that could ever happen, will happen, everywhere, at the same time, all the time,
as long as what happens obeys the laws of physics. The craziness of this very
fact makes it again very unlikely that the universe is indeed infinite, also
because it is still expanding. And so if the universe is not infinite, and thus
its possibilities were limited, we may really are alone in the universe, and
that makes the thought experiment of "what if" a somewhat sad experience. In any
case, I greatly enjoyed the time I spend with this book.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/We-Have-No-Idea-Hoerbuch/B071V65NCJ
• https://twitter.com/danielwhiteson
