I got into How To Decide, written by Annie Duke. Duke was a former poker
professional. She wrote a couple of books. In this one here she provides tools
for decision making. Throughout the chapters of the book she lays out several
pitfalls and fallacies people usually run into and get wrong. It might be simple
things like journaling your decision making across time to help with your own
decision making process. That way you can more acurately revisit past decisions
you have made. Drawing decision trees is also an opportunity to visualize edges
of your decision making, so that it may be more aparent to draw conclusions from
past interconnected events. Duke mentions that believe is not knowledge. There
is always way more information that we are able to comprehend, while what we
believe is always only part of information we hope to be true. One wonderful
concept I want to take with me is the difference between the outside and the
inside view. The inside view is primarily denominated in the point of view that
we have for ourselves. The inside view is error prone by our believes of social
reality. The inside view puts us at risk in our very own echo chamber. While the
outside view may present an equally incomplete picture of the world, it is a
reflection of the surroundings we do not account for while being stuck in the
inside view. There is no judgement to be made of right or wrong or better or
worse when comparing outside and inside view. It is more about finding the
balance between the two to help better decision making along the way. The book
is not super thrilling, but a good source of inspiration for cognitive decision
making problems.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/How-to-Decide-Hoerbuch/0593345320
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Annie_Duke
