I got into The Telomere Effect, written by Elizabeth Blackburn. The audiobook
version is a bit annoying because the narrator spells out all kinds of reference
URLs throughout the chapters. Despite that little annoyance, the book is
actually a wealth of research and knowledge about environmental effects on our
telomeres. Telomeres are the protective caps on the ends of the strands of DNA
called chromosomes, which house our genomes. These caps shorten with each cell
division. When they reach a critical length, the effected cell stops dividing or
dies. Research shows that all kinds of environmental influences like toxins and
stress heavily effect telomere length. Even exposure to sunlight may cause
telomeres to shorten in skin cells. Therefore the book is full of various
therapeutic advice for health and mental conditions. There are a bunch of
meditation guides and stress reduction techniques outlined. Typical suspects
like food, sleep, exercise and social dynamics like education and income heavily
influence telomere length. One case struck me in particular. Parents may
directly define telomere length for their offspring inside the womb. Studies
show that parents within the lower end of the education and income spectrum give
birth to babies of shorter telomere length right out the gate. The implications
of this is that poverty has direct effects of health and life-span on the
genetic level. I appreciate the insights of this book so much and see it as
valuable resource for a better and healthier life.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/The-Telomere-Effect-Hoerbuch/B01MQKKY4V
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elizabeth_Blackburn
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Telomere
