# THE GAMES WE PLAY

![diagram](./assets/0000001.1.svg)

I wish somebody would have told me 20 years ago how investing actually works.
The world is full with financial products and other people's opinions, all of
which try to profit from you. All the while the most effective way of thinking
about personal finance is not articulated well. I think it all comes down to
understanding your self and finding your style. So this post intends to explain
how important it is to understand the games we play.

There are four rules in capital allocation. Rule number one, two and three are
"don't lose money". Rule number four is "compound over time". Since the games we
play take years and decades to unfold, it is imperative that you prevent losing
money at all costs. Blowing up is the single most common denominator that forces
people to stop playing. Don't die. Keep playing.

Everyone still playing has to realize that your size dictates your strategy.
What you need to do with 5,000 USD is different to what you need to do with
5,000,000 USD. Think of it this way. If you have a little boat, you might make
it to the other side of a little lake. If you have a big ship, you might make it
to the other side of a big ocean. A little lake is not likely to harbour a big
ship. Because the ship is too big and too heavy, and the lake is too small and
there is no infrastructure to accommodate the big ship. On the other hand, a big
ocean is a too dangerous of a place for a little boat. Because the boat is too
small and too fragile, and the ocean is too vast and there nasty creatures and
storms waiting to wreck the little boat. Small bankrolls do usually require more
risk to realize the necessary multiples. Big bankrolls do usually require less
risk to maintain the necessary foresight. The more you have, the more you need
to zoom out.

Understanding the game that you play is critical because you can only get a
fighting chance if you know the exact rules of the game. Imagine a pretty common
story like this. You have not heard about crypto for 2 years. Everyone told you
crypto is dead. Out of a sudden you hear that Bitcoin made a new all time high.
You login to your eToro account and short the hottest AI Coin because of
something you read on Twitter. The most common outcome of these very common
stories is total ruin. Because everything is wrong about that story at every
single step of the way. At that point you roll over and die already or realize
something. What you need to realize is that you do not even know what you do not
know. You do not know what crypo is or how it works. You do not know what AI is
or how it works. You do not know what shorting is or how it works. You do not
even seem to know what the internet is and how it works. And yet, you find
yourself shorting AI Coins in a bull market. If your experience was anything
like mine, then your very first cycle was most likely a complete catastrophy.
Given that all of our sins and failings are quite human, we should not feel too
bad about the outcome. Instead, we should take it as an opportunity to learn
something from our mistake. We can show who we are if we dust it off, get up and
own it.

At this point you have to figure out what you want and how you want to go about
it. Nobody can tell you what your goals look like nor what style of capital
allocation suits you the best.


shitcoin gambling, being exit liquidity

using financial products, being the consumer

having a great idea, understanding how to make somebody use it

owning a house, paying a morgage or paying it down
trading versus investing, relevance of low and high time frames

ask yourself what will always be true

reading the temperature of the room
study the far end of the risk curve
study the madness of the people
study animal spirits

study the cost of money
