# RESET EVERYTHING

![diagram](./assets/0000005.1.svg)

Talk to anyone out there and you may come to the same conclusion. The systems
governing us all around the world are broken. Software breaks every day. And
when it breaks, we fix it. What we are somehow not fixing are the systems that
define how we live. The games we are playing collectively can only ever be as
good as the rules that tell us what we can do and what we cannot do. This post
intents to describe ideas for better games on a nation state level.


A Opportunities versus outcomes ,

We might say that opportunities get us towards capitalism and outcomes get us
towards communism.

opportunities are created for a broad set of personas
by applying a simple rule, outcomes are created for specific people by applying
a complucated idealogy,

No matter which system you choose you always will have competition and the
question you should be asking is on which level we should be wanting to compete
against ... yeah well, against who actually?


bigger government implies less competent citizens, and that is not good, less
competitive, less revenue, less profit, less growth, more dependence, more
centralization, less constraints


the constraints are defined between government and citizens, even though we want
to optimize for the health of the system, if the system is the objective, it
cannot be the constraint, and what actually matters is that the people do well

emergent behaviour versus enshrined opinions

insert Margaret Thatcher quote, Socialist governments traditionally do make a
financial mess. They always run out of other people's money.

Democratic systems today concentrate power in special interest groups, parties
and governments. There is a relatively small footprint on a headcount basis
across these entities, meaning democratic systems are fairly easy to corrupt by
targeting small groups of individuals. Over longer time horizons the effects of
lobbying and self interest potentially take a hold in systemically meaningful
ways. This is about mechanism design. The code our democracies run on today is
written down in our constitutions. While they serve us relatively well compared
to other systems, they are still meaningfully broken by design. And we have to
change that. At the moment there exist significant power concentrations around
the ways money is created, collected and spent. This power concentration is
naturally prone to corruption because of its underlying centralization. Our
checks and balances are good and great, but none of them prevent wealth
debasement, household deficits, government misspending and efficiency decreases
all over the place.

An idea for improving our governance systems would be to modify the value flows
within the underlying monetary and fiscal institutions. If taxes go into one big
honey pot that is ready to be exploited, then we end up in the place we are in
right now. At best, get rid of the honey pot. Stop blindly collecting more and
more money from individuals and stop blindly spending it in the naive believe
that more money is able to solve problems. Not a single successful business is
run like that. The citizens of a region should be allowed to allocate at least
50% of their provided taxes to local causes in ways they see personally fit
based on their individual and independent judgement. Take out a map, find the
point at which you live, draw a 100km circle around that point. This is where
you can allocate 50% of your taxes. No questions asked. No postal code areas
that change every year based on voter preferences.



[The Dictatorship of the Minority]: https://nassimtaleb.org/tag/minority-rule
