# DATA MARKETS

![diagram](./assets/0000009.1.svg)

> In order to get any price to zero, its producing technology must improve ad
> infinitum. - [xh3b4sd]

Data creates insights. Insights enable competition. Competition increases
efficiency. And efficiency reduces prices. Data, insights, competition and
efficiency are the path dependencies of innovation. We could say that innovation
is data driven. We could also say that innivation therefore originates from data
markets. This post intents to explain why everything is a data market.

Data markets are often defined as data exchanges in which data is transacted on.
That is a quite limited view of the world. In the most fundamental sense, our
idea of data markets represents adversarial systems from which insights can be
gained. Those systems do not only create data, but they also modify, store,
share or hide the underlying data for various reasons. The actors within those
systems are highly motivated to keep their competitive advantage at all costs,
and sharing proprietary insights is not always the most yielding strategy to do
so. Under such restrictive circumstances we refer to those rather closed systems
as [walled gardens]. In the most literal sense walled gardens are gardens
enclosed by high walls. The walls surounding those gardens act as layer of
defense or means of maintaining certain environmental conditions. We could view
green houses as walled gardens as well I think.

Now, data is everywhere, but it can only become useful if you can access it.
Data is naturally highly distributed and maybe even guarded. If data markets do
not appear to exist publicly for a particular field, then it might be that the
incumbents do not want to expose their delivered quality of service. That then
might imply that the service quality delivered is particularly bad. Or, the
incumbents wield enough authority within their field of expertise that it causes
said data market to exists within the confines of monopolistic forces, which
then enables said incumbents to hide away. In either case, there might be
legions of unhappy customers and competitors who would all love to express their
frustration. Then it would be quite easy to survey those people for opinions of
what is actually going on. That way we might be able to illuminate a problem
domain and find an opportunity for which there might not even exist any
meaningful competition just yet.

Assuming we have a particular kind of data accessible, some kind of insight must
be generated in order to enable some kind of competitive advantage. Insight can
only be generated if we understand the problem domain and the context from which
the data we applies to. Contextualizing data is important because it is the act
of translating facts into meaning. Just having data is not useful. Being able to
articulate what data means within a given context can be valuable. And the value
creation by contextualizing data is then what potentially represents an insight.

Assuming we have a particular kind of insight created, some kind of competitive
advantage must be generated in order to increase some kind of efficiency.
Competitive advantage can only be generated if two things are true. First, we
are able to design a solution that is in line with the insight at hand. And
second, we have the ability to properly implement the designed solution. Design
and implementation are fundamental requirements to competitiveness, and each of
those two requirements is considerably challenging in theory and practice.

Assuming we have a particular kind of efficiency achieved, the price for some
kind of good or service must be reduced in order to let innovation have an
impact in the real world. Without the distribution of an efficiency increase,
its underlying competitive advantage can never be realized and the intended
innovation can never be achieved. At this point we start to understand the value
chain of innovation and its various path dependent challenges. It takes a great
deal of theoretical and pradctical capabilities in order to break through the
barriers of an industry. Usually it takes years and decades of blood, sweat and
tears, if not generations, to fulfil the promise of an innovation's dream.

Assuming we have a particular innovation embedded into the real world, we are
finally able to create and extract value. That may happen in one of two ways.
Either a new data market is created and the achieved innovation is sold in the
form of some good or service. Or an existing data market is disrupted by
undercutting the competition in the form of lower prices or higher quality. In
either case, innovation raises the bar for everyone and in order to keep our
competitive advantage we must be able to protect and defend the underlying path
dependent value chain. Yet another daunting task. History is full of scrappy
inventors that got left behind by copy cats with inherently better distribution
strategies. What is legal might not always be just. But at the end of the day
people might ask themselves whether they want to make money or rather be right.

Let's look at competing data markets for a moment. The [consumer price index] is
one example of a data market. An alternative for that particular data market is
[Truflation]. In that example we have two data markets competing for authority
within the same domain. The CPI and Truflation try to provide insights into the
cost of living based on a basket of consumer prices. We could say that the CPI
and Truflation together form another data market that might be useful to gain
insights from beyond the purpose of consumer prices. The provocative question
you might want to ask here now is whether the CPI or Truflation represent
consumer prices more accurately. Your spidey senses should be tingling by now.
Understanding the complex nature of data markets does not allow us to arrive at
simple conclusions like yes or no. While the desire to compare data markets is
strong and reasonable, we have to dig deeper and ask better questions. The
question "is complex system A or complex system B better" is simply not good
enough. Asking bad questions leads to bad answers. The quality of your question
limits the quality of your desired answer. [As with everything you can estimate
your understanding of anything by the quality of questions you are able to ask
about the subject matter.] Here are some ideas for better questions to ask if we
want to compare the CPI and Truflation. What are they actually measuring? How do
their baskets of goods and services differ? Where does either data market get
their data actually from? How is this data being sourced? Which methodologies
does either data market employ in order to aggregate consumer prices? Who is
employing the people and machines within those data markets? That are their
motivations? Who do these people have to answer to? What messages do they want
to send with their respective insights? At this point it should become clear
that we should take insights from competing data markets with a grain of salt
and be reminded of the old adage [show me the incentives and I show you the
outcome]. Apart from the incentives, data sourcing can be quite difficult due to
the nature of the underlying systems. Comparing digital and physical systems, it
is so much easier to collect data from digital systems because digital systems
can be automated in precise and fault tolerant ways. Physical systems have so
much more friction because the human ability to move atoms around is so much
more limited compared to our ability to manipulate bits. I am sometimes in awe
wondering how the lights are still on considering that [we tell people every
month to go out into thousands of stores to manually write down prices]. We have
not come far after all it seems.

Another example of a data market is health care in which
practitioners, hospitals and health insurances all represent their own
respective data markets.

what are other interesting forms of data markets?
youtube, video data
facebook
twitter
amazon
spotify
ethereum, MEV
facility management
farcaster, channels

prediction markets in the literal sense
financial markets as prediction markets





The insights gained from data markets may be able to answer any given question.
How much money does this cost? Who needs help? Where do I want to live? When is
the best time to harvest? What is the cause of this? It's data markets all the
way down.

[As with everything you can estimate your understanding of anything by the quality of questions you are able to ask about the subject matter.]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2021/0001028
[Truflation]: https://truflation.com/dashboard
[consumer price index]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumer_price_index
[show me the incentives and I show you the outcome]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/quote/0000022
[walled gardens]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walled_garden
[we tell people every month to go out into thousands of stores to manually write down prices]: https://www.bls.gov/opub/hom/cpi/data.htm#:~:text=Approximately%20two%2Dthirds%20of%20price%20collection%20in%20the%20CPI%20is%20done%20by%20personal%20visits%20of%20CPI%20data%20collectors%20to%20brick%2Dand%2Dmortar%20stores.%20The%20remaining%20data%20are%20collected%20by%20telephone%20or%20on%20the%20outlet%E2%80%99s%20website%20and%20apps.
[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2024/0001275#L2-L3
