# THE HARDEST FUCKING THING

![diagram](./assets/0000007.1.svg)

> Nothing is so permanent as a temporary government program. - [Milton Friedman]

We live in a society in which almost everything is about money. And as with
everything, money exists on a quality distribution. Not every money is created
equal. Some money is better than others. We refer to the quality of money as
hardness. The best money is therefore the hardest possible asset. In the context
of finance, this post intents to explain why hardness matters.

For the sake of keeping it simple, let us not focus too much on all the
complexities involved when determining what money actually is. Let us simply say
this much. Money enables us to buy whatever somebody else is willing to sell. So
the act of trading one thing for another is fascilitated by money, where that
one thing must be valuable to both parties involved in the trade. Exchanging
value requires us to store and transfer that value over time. And we can say
that the hardest asset is the very money that stores the most amount of value
over the longest period of time. Time is the ultimate enemy of anything that
aims to retain value. With every passing year, and every passing century,
everything in this world may change in unpredictable ways. And hardness is the
very property allowing an asset to stand the test of time.

On a human time scale we can say that real estate has been a pretty hard asset
for many people, with the caveat that real estate is immobile and at times
illiquid. Those two unfortunate properties may cause tremendous harm to real
estate, if its value cannot be made liquid when its owner needs that value the
most. War is a pretty devastating thing if your home gets seized or destroyed in
the process. And the more likely it becomes for war to unfold in any given area,
the less liquid that area's real estate market becomes. Gold has been a pretty
hard asset over the centuries as well, and many continue to believe in its
hardness to this day. The problem with gold is not so much that it can be
destroyed like the house you want to live in. The problem with gold is rather
that it is difficult to move if you own it yourself in physical form. Owning
significant amounts of value in the form of gold is highly impractical. And
chances are that it gets seized or stolen, if war comes knocking at your door.
Only a century ago Executive Order 6102 was signed in the USA, forcing citizens
to turn in most of their gold based assets during the Great Depression.
Henceforth, americans had been prohibited in owning arbitrary amounts of gold
for over 40 years, until the limitation of gold ownership was repealed in 1974.
That story says something about the great democracies we live in. And [all we
can take away from this life is that there is no rule or law, but what you can
or cannot do].

It is fair to say that nothing is harder than time itself. But, our
approximations under the use of technology start to become closer to the hardest
possible assets ever created. This is where we make the case for blockchain
networks and their native tokens, most notably BTC and ETH. We have begun the
age of digital assets now. They are global by nature. Digital assets are not
simply confined by nation state borders. They are always liquid, and if managed
properly, almost impossible to seize. The attentative reader will notice that
those technologies do only exist for a mere 15 years by the time of writing. And
that begs the question how reliable those technologies can in fact be at
retaining any amount of value, if their [Lindy Effect] today is very limited by
nature. In my mind, what we are witnessing here is the purest form of
technologically enabled economic compression we have ever seen before.

Economic compression is a protocol for harnessing the sudden release of
accumulated action potential. It happens that somewhere in the economy this
action potential increases over time. And approached at the right moment, it can
be taken advantage off in order to gain an individual productivity increase. The
goal is to realize more value in less time by compressing progress. For
instance, working in a startup compresses the experience of a career. Investing
in digital assets compresses the understanding of money. Adding weight during
sports compresses the effect of fitness, and so on. Economic compression reduces
multi decade efforts down into a couple of years time, or even a moment's
notice, resulting in productivity increases that are sometimes extraordinary. In
my mind, that is what we are doing with blockchain networks today. We are
compressing the effects of innovation and increase our abilities to capture its
value. And we do it better and faster than ever before.

This is the case for the hardest possible asset. BTC and ETH are the most
liquid, most durable and least corruptable assets, which makes those assets the
hardest fucking thing in our day and age.

the laws of physics have unbelievable hardness

exploitation, dillution, manipulation, consequences


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiat_money

[Lindy Effect]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lindy_effect
[Milton Friedman]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/quote/0000024
[all we can take away from this life is that there is no rule or law, but what you can or cannot do]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2024/0001296
