# ON WRITING

![diagram](./assets/0000004.1.svg)

> The essence of a story is not found across the intricacies of other peoples'
> takeaways, but rather within the intricate magic that you find for yourself.
> - [xh3b4sd]

We live in a world of external validation and many writers seem to suffer from
some kind of "rate my plate" syndrome, making them believe it is somehow super
important what other people think about their work and the artefacts they
produce. It is ok to value an opinion, especially if it comes from a place of
trust and competence. But the writer's trap is to mistake the art for an
industry, that it is in fact not, causing the world to evolve around finite
games with shortsighted incentives. And this post intents to make the case that
it is incredibly important to understand what kind of game you are playing.

Writing is a form of expression and a form of thinking. Writing is art and
writing can heal. Writing can instruct and writing can be entertaining. Writing
can help you grow and writing can simply be fun doing it. There is no single
best answer for the motivation and purpose of a writers journey. Note that
writing is exactly that, a journey. And first and foremost it is your journey,
nobody else's. Writing comes from inside of you when words materialize on a
page, born out of the whirlwind that is your inner voice, your thoughts and your
feelings.

Let's take the hiking example again. Imagine you are hiking. Now, why are you
doing it? Are you hiking because you love to be in nature or because you want to
get to the top of the mountain? These are two different things, with different
intentions and strategies required. And to be frank, you can suck at both. But
the question is why you would do it anyway and whether you enjoy doing it. This
is the classic differentiation between intrinsic and extrinsic motivation. Do
you care about the process, or do you care about the destination?

If it is the process, then you have a chance of playing an infinite game, which
would usually result in a more fulfilling experience over time, creating a more
positive sum version of the world. Like the invisible hand of personal growth
you are then on a venture to explore and be better tomorrow. This process is
then the very connection with reality making the expression of yourself whole
and true. If on the other hand it is the destination you are going for, then
there is a chance of external incentive structures distorting the shape of you
and the shape of the world. And that is then when you are playing finite games
for finite rewards. Like so many cases of top athletes winning gold and
afterwards falling into severe depression, because their life long pursuit of
title and validation came finally to an end. Leaving them with nothing but a big
whole of emptiness inside. There is of course a place in the world where goals
matter. Goals are great and important. And the point we are trying to make here
is that you should understand what kind of game you are playing.

Quite often people say they are not good at writing and the fear of not
performing well paralyzes them. So they end up not writing at all. In
comparison, quite often I see overhyped characters and personalities producing
the lowest effort kind of low quality work. And when I see how bad the writings
of those people are, then I am telling myself I can do that as well. And
hopefully better. The question is again why you or anyone should write. And I
always come to the same conclusion, that writing doesn't have to be for anyone
else but yourself. [Writing is a form of thinking.] It may simply help us to
understand the world we live in. It may help us to process the loss of a loved
one or any experience of the day to day in general. That is also why diaries are
a thing. If you want to write, just write. If you want other people to read it
you may be playing a different kind of ballgame. In any case the same principle
applies, [runners run] and writers write, nothing else.

the notion of perfection and bad books, there is nothing like a bad book, it is
only that it is not interesting or meaningful to you right now and maybe ever
and that is ok because it might mean something for somebody else

the breakdown of journalism, what a fucking joke, average idiots pursuing their
own agenda

scientists publishing papers without making progress in science

founders building products, chewing glass every day, liking the taste of your
own blood

enjoy playing the guitar

[Writing is a form of thinking.]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/quote/0000006
[diaries]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diary
[runners run]: https://powerlaw.systems/runners-run-nothing-else
[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2024/0001271



TODO

* make infinite game reference
* make invisible hand reference
