MEMO W09 MAR 2024

> Losing time is the single most expensive mistake you can ever make because
> once lost it will never come back again. - [xh3b4sd]

Last week I shared the idea that we are roughly halfway through the bull market
already. One follow up question resulting from that assumption could now be how
to manage the approaching end of the current bull market. There are some major
mistakes that people tend to make when managing their own money. One
particularly costly and painful mistake is to get married to an idea. That means
you may have a particular price target in mind for ETH. For instance, you say to
yourself that you are not going to sell ETH until it hits a price of 10,000 USD.
A similar form of that very same mistake is to have a specific portfolio value
in mind, that you tell yourself you have to achieve during this cycle. For
instance, you say to yourself that you are not selling your ETH until your
portfolio value reaches 1,000,000 USD. The mistakes made here can be summarized
like this. You merely express the desire for the world to become what you want
it to be in the future. As far as financial markets are concerned, you cannot
simply wish some asset price or portfolio value into existence. You cannot just
say how much money you want to have and then expect to get exactly that. The
world does not work that way. What we can therefore establish here is that the
price of ETH and the value of your portfolio do not matter if you want to figure
out at what point in time you should exit the markets. Maybe think about it this
way. Every bit of information out there is one data point. You come across many
data points every day. Some of them are important, others are rather irrelevant.
Another way to frame this is the so called "signal to noise ratio". Most of the
information out there is noise. But some of the information out there makes for
a pretty good signal. What all of this comes down to is that you have to take
the world for what it is, and not what you want it to be. Financial markets do
not care about what you want the world to be. So you need to trade the market
that is there right in front of you. And you need to adapt your ideas and your
understanding of the current environment based on the signals that you get over
time. With every new day, there is new information to process, and your mental
models need to stay up to date based on what is happening in the world. The
natural implication for what we just learned here is that you will either end up
selling too early or too late. Nobody can time the market perfectly, and you
should not feel bad about your disability to be any different in that regard. It
is what it is. If anything, try to optimize for good times and try to minimize
painful regrets, so that on the way down you do not give back everything that
you made on the way up.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2020/0000764
