MEMO W10 MAR 2024

> Being yourself might be the worst strategy in an ever changing system. -
> [xh3b4sd]

This time is different, because of the ETF follows. And here is the context
within which those flows occur. First, we are coming out of a zero interest rate
environment and are still working through the overhang of endless money
printing. There are 6 trillion USD earning 5% interest rate in American money
market funds. That is twice as much as 10 years ago. The pockets are full, and
they want to earn. Parts of those 6 trillion USD will go out on the risk curve
eventually, as soon as rate cuts hit throughout this cycle. Second, we just made
technological breakthroughs in machine learning applications. That is the AI
hype for you right there. People have reason to believe in a bright future and
its tremendous upside. The animal spirits are certainly back in venture. Third,
we have to realize that we are just coming out of a bear market and that the
people really want to get going now. Fourth, we had a great earnings season with
over 75% of S&P 500 companies surprising expectations to upside. Admittedly, the
prior bear market might as well has kept expectations lower which made it easier
to beat them, but that is market psychology for you right there. Absolute terms
do not matter here, but rather the realized rate of change on a relative basis.
Fifth, this is an election year, which means that there is quite the political
motivation to make the economy appear strong and healthy. Whether we deal with
causation or correlation doesn't matter, because it's working. Sixth, we are in
expectation of the upcoming Bitcoin halving. It does not matter too much in my
eyes that halvings on a purely structural level weaken in their impacts the more
halvings we get. Because the dream is alive and well. Put all of those factors
together and it becomes hard to argue against this simple idea. We are
witnessing a sea change unfolding in front of our eyes. And chances are that all
the crypto native traders that fail to understand this sea change, will end up
selling low and buying back in high. I think many will get it wrong this time
around, because they apply an old rule book to the wrong cycle. BTC is hovering
around its all time high of roughly 69,000 USD. And funny enough, BTC did
already break all time highs in various fiat currencies that are less hard than
the US Dollar. As we reach and breach those psychological levels, the crypto
natives become cautious this time around. It might very well be that many of the
seasoned crypto traders sell and rotate early, because they are trained to
anticipate breakdowns that would otherwise take their hard earned paper gains
away. From here on out, this is what I see happening. People who try to
capitalize from anticipated weakness, this time around, are not likely to get
the prolonged weakness that they are trained to anticipate. And the reason for
that are the constant inflows of external capital into the new American spot
Bitcoin ETFs. Just early this week we experienced a market wide shakeout in a
crypto typical magnitude of some 15%. BTC and ETH wicked to the downside and at
least ETH quickly rose beyond its prior level within a matter of hours. The
steady buy pressure that we do already see is slowly but surely trickling down
the risk curve. And in my mind, what we experienced early this week is only the
beginning of a sea change that is very likely to accelerate in the coming
quarters. Every week we will now hear from financial institutions and capital
allocators that they are enabling their clients to participate in the spot
Bitcoin ETFs as well. Last year the recommended crypto exposure globablly was
exactly zero. From this year on forward the recommended crypto exposure is at a
minimum between 1 and 3 percent. American financial advisors have almost 50
trillion USD in assets under management. Their clients will be allowed to tap
into that crypto exposure over time. Potential future inflows amount to the
extend of roughly 1 trillion USD. That is about one third of all the degenerate
crypto market cap as of today. Anyone selling too much too soon will likely end
up in the uncomfortable position that there will not be any good entry anymore
to come back in. Those mistakes will in my opinion inevitably create forced
buyers. So I say, higher! I am not saying there will be no drawdowns anymore.
Shakeouts like seen this week will happen in crypto typical fashion, but they
may be structurally different and they may not materialize over longer time
horizons. Shakeouts will happen, and in the context of all of the above, they
are likely to make a fool out of those who do not see the signs. If you, dear
reader, are allocated in the hardest fucking assets out there, then do yourself
a favour and ignore all the noise. Zoom out, and try to get the big things
right. Buy and hold has outperformed almost all contenders in the history of
finance. And when we are posed with a decision of utmost importance, then we
should try to resort to the few things that we know will always be true. Here
are some things that will always be true. The world will always become more
digital. People will always want to make progress. People will always want to
remain fee. And people will always want to own the hardest fucking assets out
there. Higher!

---

The meme coin casino captures the smartest and the dumbest money. Anyone
gambling here makes a random walk down the slot machines. There is nothing here
but liquidity chasing compelling stories and everyone involved should just
understand the kind of game they are playing. Nobody here is reading white
papers. Everyone is simply looking for a greater fool to sell to. And I am not
going to lie, there are many fools out there. The meme coin sector as a whole
gained over 170% within 7 days. And due to its fragile nature those numbers
might as well be twice as much or literally zero by the time you are reading
this. The top 5 meme coins by market cap are currently DOGE, SHIB, PEPE, BONK
and WIF. SHIB is the second largest meme coin here and was running the hardest,
with over 300% gains within 7 days. WIF is the only thing that created an
immediate emotional reaction inside of me when I saw it first, days after it got
deployed. Before I were to gamble here, I would like to see a more material
market reset of some odd 50% in the meme coins, which may never come. Either way
I am totally fine watching this zoo from the sidelines.

---

On a healthy note, the ETH / BTC ratio on the monthly chart is slowly grinding
up. As expected, ETH becomes more valuable again compared to BTC over time. Our
position here remains steadfast.

ETH burn is at 9 days

Fee burn from L2s hit 15% over the past 30 days.

Blast L2 made into top 3 rollup in TVL.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2019/0000290
