How to be a human being? I woke up this morning, and I was not afraid anymore.
This here is like exposing your own vulnerability to the ice cold wind of the
beach around us. People draw lines in the sand everywhere. It is better that
way. The beach is actually a very dangerous place and it is ok to be afraid. We
all are. We all draw lines in the sand. At the beach, it is not about not being
afraid. It is more about being real brave. Braver than yesterday, because I, I
want to create tomorrow. Seth Godin told me to go and make art. And this is what
I am doing here.

Sometimes, it is like you are where you are supposed to be. A place just fine. A
beach providing you with everything you need. Providing everything you desire
for the time being. A beach just good enough. You become comfortable with the
circumstances. The water is cold. But to be honest, water must be cold. The cold
is your friend. Use it. You align yourself with the environment around you.
There is this little tension of give and take. Sometimes the beach shows you a
better way to be. Sometimes the beach gains from your courage, and you stay
synchronized. You connect. You are good. You both go your way. You and the
beach, which you are gladly a part of. It might even be exciting once in a while
because fresh wind shows the direction we all together can move forward to. The
wind makes waves. And you love the waves so much. We do love them altogether. We
do because we appreciate and understand each other. We have a connection. A real
connection. A real human relationship because we are real human beings. And we
connect. Because we talk with people. We do not talk at people. We talk with
them. Somebody has an idea? Great! Let's share it and see what we can do with
it, together. Progress is being made. Everyone is electrified. Everyone feels
like they are right where they have to be just to make a thing. Everyone wants
to be where they are, because they have chosen to be where they are. People had
options, and made a decision for themselves. People wanted to be with us. And
now they are here. We created utopia at our beach. Simply because we wanted to.
Nobody needed permission to do it. We were even desperatly looking for all the
good people coming with us along the way because our audacious idea wasn't
possible to realize without all the brilliant talent out there. All the real
beach builders. Talent we were missing. And once we found it, we did not have to
miss talent anymore. Utopia became something. Utopia, became real.

We are human beings. We are the people and this here is our utopia. This here is
our beach. We are around people in our utopia because it means something to us.
It means something to be around these people who build all of this here with us
together. It means something to us because we are the people who build all of
this here with them. They were there yesterday. They will be there tomorrow.
They think what we think is important and we think what we think matters most to
them. What we think and what we say is rarely one and the same. When we talk
with one another, it is often really really difficult to keep up with the pace
of our utopia. We walk. We run. Sometimes we stumble and somebody catches us.
Right in time. We are close. We are one. And yet, we are humans. Humans on a
beach. What somebody says and what somebody means is not always really clear.
Though, it does not matter that much, because we are there for each other and we
are doing it together. Because we are close and we are one. Everyone acts in the
best interest of our beach, because it is ours. We made this. It is, something.

This is a story of falling leaves in autumn. This is a story of starting a
wildfire while running my canoe down a waterfall. As we talk and understand we
go ahead and do what we think is right. Until, something is not so right anymore
and you look back at years of passion turning into something different than it
should be. When we talk we say yes even though we mean no. We think we
understand what we say but we do something else than what we said we want to do.
We are together still, but something is quite not so right anymore. Everyone
knows it, and yet, nobody is saying anything. We do not talk about ideas
anymore. We do not talk with people anymore. We talk at them. We lose our
connection and out of a sudden, one starts to wonder where all the lines in the
sand came from. Like they have not been there yesterday. Doors are closed.
Decisions are made. And this is how it goes now. You draw a line in the sand.
You lose it. You tell people where there place is. And now it is us versus them.
They are talking about us, just like they ever did. Just, now, you are not so
sure anymore what this might mean. Like a bubble just burst. Like a dream just
crushed. All along you just have been on the beach trying to ride the waves.
Something is wrong. It hurts inside. You are not sure if talking about it is
really the way forward. What if you ride a wave you were not supposed to ride.
What if somebody does not like it. What if somebody uses that against you now.
What if you are not allowed to ride the waves anymore. If there would only not
be this line in the sand. People do not talk anymore. People think and people
do. People make decisions. The next one might hit you. People tell you how
tomorrow may look like. We lost our connection by good intent. Silence became
our friend. Utopia came to be a beach like any other, and yet we still think to
be human.

It is like I wanted to believe. So badly. I wanted the beach to be utopia and I
really do not want to kick up the dust only because I was naive enough to
believe there are no lines in the sand. I just did not want them to be right
there. I wanted to believe. But they are there. They ever have been. Because I
woke up this morning. And I am not afraid anymore.
