# 04.03.20

Tanya and I spent a wonderful day together. We slept in the same bed for the
first time. Our warmth filled my heart with joy and my eyes with tears when we
just looked in our eyes, smiled and kissed and cuddled.

# 17.04.20

I said Tanya I love her. She kissed me and told me she loves me as well. When we
talk, the hours just rush by. It is like all that matters is us.

# 26.08.20

Tanya and I made a city trip. In a caf√© we met a wonderful woman. Her name is
Tabea. We had dinner together and she payed and asked for a dance. Later she
spent the night with us. Tanya was a bit quiet the next morning but I was sure
she liked it. I know she needs time sometimes.

# 02.04.21

It is a bit tiring to go back and forth and always jetting from city to city.
Tanya and Tabea like each other a lot. I think they love each other but none of
them dared to say it out loud so far. I tell each of them every time. We are a
great team, even though we cannot always be together.

# 27.06.21

Surprise, Tanya became pregnant. We are all so excited. Tabea and I take some
more time off from the job to support Tanya. We decided to buy a house somewhat
close to the city. We have like three sources of income and two of us make quite
a bit. The house is amazing.

# 30.08.21

I wanted a cat. We have a cat now. Churchill likes the fireplace. He gets fresh
meat every day and can go out to hunt mice.

# 05.02.22

We have a name for the baby. We want to call her Mia. What makes me nervous is
that Tabea is now pregnant as well. Twins, no shit. It is super cool that the
mommies have more to share and watching the kids will be less of a burden
anyway, but now it is only me feeding the pack for a while.

# 16.09.22

Out of the blue, spending some time in the park, walking the dog, we met Titus.
Fascinating man. We spent the weekend together. I am not sure what happened but
it felt all familiar and well.

# 31.12.22

Tanya's and Tabea's families came over during the holidays. Titus just moved in.
I feel like it took some pressure off of me and the ladies adore him. The older
generation is a bit uncomfortable with our patchwork family, but the cat doesn't
seem to mind. Neither do the kids. Mia is our oldest now. She seems to be super
curious and happy most of the time. She doesn't seem to notice any difference
when either of her mommies or daddies pick her up. She sleeps in our arms. Milan
and Maddy are just two months old now. Tabea made a great job. Tanya was always
with her.

# 22.03.23

Milan was in the hospital because of an infection. He is in good hands. Tabea is
as cool as you can be considering your child is in hospital. Tanya seems to
freak out about it but we got it. I am a bit under water with work. I am so glad
about Titus. He makes a real difference in the team. Churchill has a new hobby,
sleeping on top of the dog.

# 13.04.24

I did not write in a while. We are all well so far. Titus' father died last
week. We are still in shock and agony somehow. It was just in February when we
got all families together and the 16 of us spent a couple of days in two
cottages at a lake in the woods. Gorgio couldn't catch anything but it was
always nice to be around him. He was that leaned back, decent man. The last
thing he told me smiling was "keep grinding son". We miss paps so much. Tabea
told Tanya she loves her during the funeral. Tanya told her she does as well,
from the bottom of her heart. They spent the other night together back in
December when Titus and I ran some errands. We are so happy they got together
that way.

# 09.11.27

With the years, priorities change. Tabea was always looking for a challenge. She
isn't as crazy about her career anymore as back in the day but she found a
chilled position at Tesla where she leads the research division. Tanya never was
too ambitious. She has a little studio and organises exhibitions once in a
while. Titus became active in the local community and teaches a kids class in
martial arts. I got my purple belt meanwhile, but I learned it is not about the
colour. I am more into no-gi anyway. Work is constantly well for me. I just
fucking crush it. It looks like the company found some big investors and we can
liquidate our shares soon. I would like to pay my part of the mortgages and
invest the rest into some brain-machine-interface startups.

# 05.05.28

Churchill had a little accident. He will be fine but for the next months he
needs a little skateboard to get around until his legs are ok again. Crazy what
medicine can do nowadays using CRISPR.

# 31.12.28

We got all together again for our new years tradition. The house is filled with
joyful life. The kids grow so fast. Would you have asked me back then how my
life will look like in ten years I would not have believed it could be that
fulfilling. My job is not that important anymore. I have some projects going
meanwhile. Sometimes I paint. Mia is into painting as well. I am there for the
family. We all are. When somebody is sick there is always someone to take care.
The adults can have a little timeout once in a while. Titus and Tanya just had
one of their trips. I was never into traveling that much anyway. Every quarter
Titus and I have a men's weekend at the lake. We have ladies nights in the city
house and the girls dress up and dance to funky music. Maddy is one of the
youngest now, but she really feels the beat.

# 04.03.30

It is exactly ten years ago that Tanya and I met the first time. I always knew I
want to be on her side. She always trusted me. My love for her and our family is
strong. The times taught us to be there when someone is calling. She learnt to
take the grind and I am so utterly proud of her. Sometimes she teaches the kids
to be tough. I always shake my head and laugh at that. I love Tabea for her
ambitions. I love Titus for his dedication. I love Mia for her curiosity. I love
Milan for his humour. I love Maddy for her rhythm. I love Churchill for allowing
us to live in his house. I love our pack. I love our traditions. I love the time
off I can take when I need it while being assured that the family got me
covered. I did not yet change a billion lives, but I started with 15. I once
said it is my fault that Gorgio died because I brought all of us onto this path.
Titus slapped me and yelled I am the best that ever happened to all these
people. I broke and cried in his arms. It is ok. I am happy now.
