I got into An Immense World, written by Ed Yong. This was one of the most
eye-opening and mind-blowing audiobooks I listened to so far. The premise of the
book is how differently animals perceive and navigate the world. Humans are
visual creatures first and foremost. Humans are then also very much reliant on
hearing and taste. This book is introducing you to almost infinite amounts of
animal worlds in which those very human senses are mostly unavailable. It turns
out that many animals are almost blind. Many animals orient themselves in the
world by tasting the air, or by picking up on microvibrations in the ground.
Many aquatic species' use what is called echolocation in order to find their way
through the vast oceans of this planet. An early fun fact made in the book was
already breaking my brain. And that is, from a biochemical point of view, the
ability to see is actually the process of smelling photons. Here is another one.
Most animals can in fact not hear. And in the world of insects, ears grow on all
kinds of body parts like bellies and knees. An Immense World is an absolute nerd
snipe that brought so much awe and wonder into my nights when I was listening to
the audiobook. And while the book had many technical details, I want to make the
case that this book should actually be read by every human being. The reason for
this is that people project a lot of their own experiences onto others, which
works heavily against empathy and patience when we need it the most. This book
shows us how different life can be for others and how limited our ability to
communicate with one another actually is. Knowing this makes for a better life
for all of us. I am so greatful for Ed Yong to have taken on the challenge to
write this book.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/An-Immense-World-Hoerbuch/B09NYKJ7C1
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ed_Yong
