I got into Mastery, written by Robert Greene. Mastery is the art of becoming a
competent professional. This book describes the path towards mastery of many
well and less well known historical figures, among others, Charles Darwin,
Leonardo da Vinci, Henry Ford and Albert Einstein. Mastery focusses on the
aspects of life that differentiate successful outliers from the average person.
At the end of the day it all seems to boil down to obsessive interests, hard
work over very long periods of time, and, a little bit of luck to be in the
right place at the right time. Imagine having the stamina and conviction over
years and decades to work on maybe even the smallest detail that represents a
tiny missing piece of the puzzle that you deem critical in order to accomplish
your mission. Those trajectories in life do all come with certain amounts of joy
and pain. It is a bit like the saying "nobody comes back from war". Because
these kinds of paradigm shifts change a life forever. One thought I found
particularly interesting to ponder on is the idea that creating a product means
to connect with reality. We cannot tell a product to connect with a reality that
does not exist. Instead we have to create a product based on the reality in
front of us, because in front of us we find the interface that a product must
comply with. One thing that confused me about the book is the structure of
stories being told. The same stories about the same characters are repeated
multiple times, explaining the same things over and over again. I listened to
the audiobook having quite often the feeling that we have been already at a
certain point in a story. In my mind that did not really help driving home the
essence of the story being told. Overall though I liked to listen to the
audiobook and got a little bit out of it for myself.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Mastery-Hoerbuch/B00A3J7SK8
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Greene_(American_author)
• https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=50BZQRT1dAg
