I got into The Dream Machine, written by Mitchell Waldrop. Written as a
biography of J.C.R. Licklider, this book describes the pivotal figure in the
development of modern computing. From a birds eye point of view, the stories
being told here explore the early visions of interactive computing and basically
every single digital innovation made thoughout the 20th and 21st century. Our
species discovered electricity and we learned to harness its powers. Humans
found ways to communicate by manipulating the flow of electrons over short and
long distances. We developed logic gates and gave birth to the digital
revolution that changed the world forever since. Reading The Dream Machine was a
reminder of how technological progress is rarely as fast as we imagine. It often
takes generations for transformative ideas in order to achieve the infamous
over-night success. It is striking to ponder different adoption cycles of
different forms of technology and realize how much the first digital revolution
resembled the internet revolution, and how much the internet revolution
resembles the blockchain revolution. It's protocol wars all the way down. And we
have to acknowledge one practical point when it comes to the adoption of
technology at large. One quote in the book put it this way. "I have not gotten
rich by inventing Ethernet. I have gotten rich by selling it." The Dream Machine
is a very interesting book, especially if someone is interested in the
historical context of computation. Just one warning, the book is massive and the
audiobook is extremely long compared to others.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/The-Dream-Machine-Hoerbuch/B07HYB8SGZ
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/J._C._R._Licklider
• https://computerhistory.org/profile/m-mitchell-waldrop/
