I got into The Goal, written by Eliyahu M. Goldratt. The book is about economics
of production plants. One part of the book is a novel of a plant manager
struggling to operate his production plant in the 1980s. This story got me
really thrilled. I didn't want to put it away. The audiobook sets a vivid
scenery with all kinds of ambient and background sounds, different character
voices and so on. What you get told here is technical, dramatic, emotional and
exciting. The listener joins the protagonists on their journey figuring out what
is going on in their factory and in the lives of the people involved.
Unfortunately the story comes to a sudden end while I was left with my
discontinued emotional investment. The smaller second part of the book is then
about repeating the theories explained in the fictional story, real world
examples and academic research. Some theories proclaimed here are about
bottlenecks and constraints in complex systems. One gets an idea on how to find
bottlenecks, what to do about them and how to improve work-flow. It appears that
chasing efficiency under all circumstances derails a sufficient strategy and
cripples an organisation fundamentally. For instance, keeping workers always
busy often reduces throughput when dealing with physical inventory. Letting
workers idle around when they have nothing to do for a little while appears to
be more efficient in certain cases. Artificially added tasks often imply more
overhead so that actual priority tasks get delayed or even forgotten. These
topics really got me thinking at some point and I would like to give a little
tech talk about some of the principles. I actually thought this book will be the
first one I listen to twice in a row, but then I got kind of shot in the dark
when the novel just died without any end for real.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/The-Goal-Hoerbuch/B00IFG9AG6
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eliyahu_M._Goldratt
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theory_of_constraints
