I got into The Uninhabitable Earth, written by David Wallace-Wells. I found the
book when David was in a Joe Rogan Podcast. The podcast was already super cool
and the book was amazing as well. It is about climate change, but full of facts
and not so much moralizing people. The direction in which we go to is insane and
there is almost nothing on the planet that is not touched by the topic. With
higher average temperatures, more people suffer from psychological stress
related issues. With higher temperatures people commit more crimes. Until the
end of the century there are estimations that up to one billion people will be
on their feet to find a new home due to unbearable conditions where they lived.
That is the equivalent of the north and south American continent combined.
Viruses and parasites appear again on the surface of the planet after being
captivated for millennia in the now melting permafrost. It also looks like that
we passed the event horizon of human inactivity being more expensive than
investing into the future. So investing into countering climate change
technologies is, or is about to become net positive as opposed to staying
dormant as usual. Interestingly I am not so much worried about the future of
mankind as such. I think humans will find a way. The question will rather be how
the world will look like and how life will be like in 50 years from now. Who
will make it through, and under which circumstances?

• https://www.audible.de/pd/The-Uninhabitable-Earth-Hoerbuch/0241399564
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Wallace-Wells
• https://gigantic.slack.com/archives/CFW9H5MGC/p1552138430000200
