I got into Measure What Matters, written by John Doerr. This one is a huge huge
resource about OKR and CFR frameworks. Half of silicon valley shares their
stories. Doerr made billions as venture capitalist. The book is all about goals
and how they can bring success or disaster: "Goals are servants to our purpose,
not the other way around.". The suggested frameworks are based on data driven
approaches which I like a lot: "In god we trust, everyone else has to bring
data.". When you measure, you almost always want to measure quality over
quantity. By the book, the four pillars of OKRs are Focus, Align, Track and
Stretch. I found CFRs also interesting to help support a healthy company
culture: "Culture eats strategy for breakfast.". One funny thing in the book was
that Doerr shared his email address and anyone can just write him for anything
about investment and leadership and the like. In relation to Giant Swarm a
couple of questions came to my mind while going through the book. What are our
OKRs? I couldn't really recall them. Who is working on which OKR within the
company? The cascading is not really clear from the top of my head. When and how
do we re-evaluate our OKRs? What and how do we learn from them? On which ones
should we double down in order to accelerate our success? The suggestion from
the book is to also apply OKRs to teams and even single individuals, which I
find quite interesting, especially for the personal development and progress
tracking for each and everyone of us.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Measure-What-Matters-Hoerbuch/B07BMDKB6T
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Doerr
