I got into The 5 Mistakes Every Investor Makes And How To Avoid Them, written by
Peter Mallouk. The book more or less focuses on investing in the stock market,
which felt a bit narrow and biased. As far as it goes it was good. Nothing new
for me personally as I learned the essential lessons in the crypto market
already. So holding the market yields to profoundly more returns 80% of the time
than actively managing your holdings, aka speculating or timing the market.
Mallouk says all the other techniques and products people want to sell you are
just worse than simply holding. That includes asset class rotation, tactical
asset allocation, style rotation, hedge funds, and yeah, active trading. When
you let others manage your money, you need to check two base criteria. First is
custody, which means who holds your money effectively. No wealth manager should
have power over your money that way. Second is competence, which is the
references and background a financial advisor has. Otherwise you could also just
give me your money and we could generate some nice returns for your, I promise.
One suggestion for a portfolio to beat the S&P 500 while not risking too much is
to have around 25% large cap, 25% mid cap, 25% emerging markets and 25% internal
allocations. These should then be balanced round about between stocks and bonds.
All of that taken with a grain of salt because a money managing strategy should
always be personalized to an investors situation and goals. What I missed was a
bit about real estate. Argument here was that big money does usually not care
about it as you rather want to own the company than the buildings it operates
in. That kind of makes sense, but I am not big money.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/The-5-Mistakes-Every-Investor-Makes-and-How-to-Avoid-Them-Hoerbuch/B00PHMYEKI
• https://petermallouk.com
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S%26P_500_Index
