I got into The Hard Thing About Hard Things, written by Ben Horowitz. This book
is one of Silicon Valley's bed time stories. Horowitz talks about his own
journey of going from being nobody over becoming CEO to evolving into one of the
most respected VCs on the planet. There are no magic tricks provided in his
stories. There was nothing easy about his path. What he provides are real life
examples simply taken from his own experiences. Often his philosophy tends to be
a little bit edgy. Solving the hard things can rarely be divided in doing right
or wrong. What Horowitz emphasizes among other key take aways is how
organizations fail fatally on the individual level. Inevitably, training and
coaching is crucial to make people live up to their potential and thus get the
most out of a company. As with everything else, there is a dichotomy between
success and failure. Once people become complacent by sufficiently enough
success, they stop thriving and fall for apathy. This is why Horowitz believes
you should always keep death in mind. When you do not give everything today,
there might not be a tomorrow. Much so like the infamous Day One philosophy of
Jeff Bezos. Horowitz does also explain his idea of War Time CEOs and Peace Time
CEOs in the book. I found this idea really compelling and his thoughts on the
subject are sometimes even hilarious. The book is great for anyone interested in
business and leadership. Not dry at all. It is entertaining and useful. Too bad
the audiobook is rather short.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/The-Hard-Thing-About-Hard-Things-Hoerbuch/B00I0ALULK
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ben_Horowitz
• https://twitter.com/bhorowitz
• https://a16z.com
• https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fTwXS2H_iJo
