I got into Mindset, written by Carol Dweck. The basic message is about the
difference between a fixed mindset and a growth mindset. I somehow had the odd
feeling all the time to have heard about most of the book content and about the
author somewhere before. While the message is super important and essential for
me, the book was pretty longish and not always too exciting. Interesting with
this book was that there is a lot of scientific background provided describing
how personal development may or may not work out too well given the
circumstances. For instance, when people fail, they often translate their
mistake of action into a mistake of identity. Depending on the feedback people
get from their environment in such situations the identification as failed
individual may worsens and fosters. A lot of examples and strategies for child
care are provided to counter some of the most obvious pitfalls. Based on the
author, a message children often hear is that they are good children when
achieving a certain result. This makes children associate results with self
worth which in turn can get really ugly when something is not going well. And
things will not go well when you grow up, I promise. This is normal and good.
The better message for children to hear would be to hightlight effort,
creativity and perseverance. The difference between result and effort is multi
dimensional. A result is static across space and time. Effort is dynamic on the
same dimensions. A result focuses on the fixed mindset, whereas effort focuses
on the growth mindset. I think there is a lot to take away from here. Overall,
great message, long book.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Mindset-Updated-Edition-Hoerbuch/140554399X
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carol_Dweck
