I got into 12 Rules For Life, written by Jordan B. Peterson. Peterson himself is
narrator of the audiobook, which I liked a lot. He is a great speaker and story
teller and one of the most misrepresented and misinterpreted personas I have
ever heard about. He is a clinical psychologist who published a lot of his
university lectures on YouTube. The biggest waves were made when he stood up
against bill C16 in Canada. I do not agree with everything what he says and
thinks, but I am really fascinated about how he says and explains something and
when he talks you can be sure he thought about that a lot in the first place. 12
Rules For Life is an incomplete guide for decent being. All Rules are nice and
make sense. It is inspirational. For my personal taste too tightly coupled with
biblical narratives. It is interesting at times, but also a bit lengthy here and
there. I liked is personal anecdotes about parenting and other issues of the
usual daily business the most. These topics were then explained by him based on
psychological literature. The book made me think, and I like that a lot. One of
the rules I liked the most in the book is rule 6: set your house in perfect
order before you criticise the world. So many people have opinions about things
they have no idea about. Like, it is politic’s fault that your life is
miserable. No, no it is not. It is your fault when your life is miserable. It is
your fault when your house is a mess. It is your fault when the world is a mess
because you did not make it better. So you have to start with something, and
this is yourself. Start small, and make incremental change. Once you sorted
yourself out for the better, you can help someone else. Have a family. This is
hard work, and once your family is good eventually, you can help your community.
And from there you go. Step by step. Every day a little bit. Kaizen.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/12-Rules-for-Life-Hoerbuch/B078Y8RH4L
• https://www.youtube.com/user/JordanPetersonVideos
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/An_Act_to_amend_the_Canadian_Human_Rights_Act_and_the_Criminal_Code
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kaizen
